DOCUMENTO: CM-TNC-Article-6-Explainer
PARTE 1 de 3
Páginas 1 a 15
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 1 ---

1
By: Beatriz Granziera, Kelley Hamrick Malvar, and John VerdieckArticle  6 
Explainer
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE COP DECISIONS ON 
CARBON MARKETS AND WHAT THEY MEAN FOR NDCS, NATURE, 
AND THE VOLUNTARY AND COMPLIANCE CARBON MARKETSUPDATED WITH
COP29
DECISIONS

--- PÁGINA 2 ---

Companion Reports
Article 6 Implementation: This 
paper explores the tools and 
trends in Article 6 implementa-
tion. We use the examples of 8 
seller countries - The Bahamas, 
Ghana, Indonesia, Kenya, 
Paraguay, Rwanda, Tanzania, 
and Zambia - as well as insights 
from buyer countries including 
Switzerland, Singapore, Sweden 
and Norway. 
Article 6 and REDD+: The 
relationship between Article 6 and 
REDD+ has been a controversial 
topic and ground for heated 
discussions. We break down the 
relationship between REDD+ and 
Article 6, what was decided in the 
Article 6 negotiations.COP29 Article 6 Key outcomes: 
The conclusion of the Article 
6 negotiations after nearly a 
decade sends a clear and decisive 
message: The rules—imperfect as 
some may be—are now estab-
lished, providing much-needed 
certainty for countries, investors, 
and stakeholders to advance their 
cooperative approaches. This 
paper breaks down the decisions 
on Article 6 taken at COP29.Feedback
If you have any feedback, please send inputs and comments to:
Beatriz Granziera b.granziera@tnc.org 
Kelley Hamrick Malvar kelley.hamrick@tnc.org 
John Verdieck john.verdieck@tnc.orgwww.puntoaparte.com.co
Cover image: Atharva Tulsi, unsplash.comGraphic design by
Acknowledgments
Many thanks to our reviewers for their valuable insight: Amy Steen, Andrea Bonzanni, Anton Tsvetov, Benedict Chia, 
Björn Fondén, Breanna Lujan, Carmen Alvarez, Christina Magerkurth, Clare Shakya, Cristina Andrea Figueroa Vargas, 
Dirk Nemitz, Felipe Ferreira, Fenella Aouane, Florence Laloe, Grace Gamble, Hugh Salway, Jacqui Ruesga, 
John Erik Prydz, Julia Paltseva, Julio Giraldo Bermudez, Kavya Bajaj, Kendall Damon, Kim Myers, Kyu-uk Lee, 
Lorna Ritchie, Luca Birigazzi, Maggie Comstock, Maggie Ferrato, Mariela Perrone, Maximiliano Bernal Temores, 
Pauline Blanc, Peter Ellis, Rane Cortez, Ritika Tewari, Si Liang Puar, Simon Fellermeyer, Stefanie Simpson, 
Subrata Chakrabarty, Wesley Ramnauth, and Yannick Träris-Kahriman

--- PÁGINA 3 ---

3Acronyms
A6.4ERs Article 6.4 Emission Reductions
ART Architecture for REDD+ Transactions
CARP Centralized Accounting and Reporting 
Platform
CDM Clean Development Mechanism
CER Certified Emissions Reductions (Kyoto 
Protocol)
CMA Conference of the Parties serving as the 
Meeting Parties of the Paris Agreement
CMP Conference of the Parties serving as the 
Meeting Parties of the Kyoto Protocol 
CO2eq Carbon dioxide equivalent
COP Conference of the Parties
CORSIA Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme 
for International Aviation
DNA Designated National Authority
ETS Emissions trading systems
FREL Forest Reference Emission Level
GCF Green Climate Fund
GHG Greenhouse gas
HFLD High Forest Low Deforestation
IC-VCM Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon 
Market
IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
ITMOs Internationally Transferred Mitigation 
Outcomes
JCM Joint Credit Mechanism
LDC Least Developed Countries LEAF Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest 
Finance
MCUs  Mitigation Contribution A6.4ERs
MEP Article 6.4 Methodological Expert Panel
NCS Natural Climate Solutions
NDC Nationally Determined Contribution
ODA  Official Development Assistance
OMGE Overall Mitigation in Global Emissions 
OIMP Other international mitigation purposes 
PACM Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism
PAICC Paris Agreement Implementation and 
 Compliance Committee
REDD+ Reducing emissions from deforestation 
and forest degradation, and the role of 
conservation, sustainable management of 
forests, and enhancement of forest carbon 
stocks
SIDS Small Islands Developing States
SOP Share of Proceeds
TER  Technical Expert Review
TREES The REDD+ Environmental Excellence 
Standard
UAE United Arab Emirates
UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change
VCM Voluntary Carbon Market
VCMI Voluntary Carbon Markets Integrity 
Initiative

--- PÁGINA 4 ---

Image: Tobias Tullius, unsplash.comExecutive summary 
The Paris Agreement paved the way for a new era of car -
bon trading. With the establishment of Article 6, countries 
can collaborate in achieving their Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs) by trading carbon units. At its 
best, Article 6 offers countries a way to invest in actions 
outside their borders and raise global ambition to limit 
temperature rise to 1.5C. However, this is only possible 
with clear and transparent accounting around what is 
traded and how countries plan to meet their NDCs.
Countries first established the framework for international 
carbon trading through Article 6 in late 2021. One year 
later, at the 27th Conference of the Parties (COP27) in 
Sharm el-Sheikh, further rules were adopted on reporting, 
registries and governance. Despite the lack of progress at 
COP28 in Dubai, momentum around Article 6.2 continued 
to grow, with numerous bilateral agreements signed and 
an increasing number of countries participating as both 
buyers and sellers. All of that built political pressure that 
helped set the stage for a breakthrough at COP29 in Baku 
(See Figure 1).
COP29 marked a historic milestone for Article 6 as coun-
tries finalized (most of) the remaining building blocks of 
carbon markets under the Paris Agreement. The conclu-
sion of the Article 6 negotiations after nearly a decade 
sends a clear and decisive message: the rules—imper -fect as some may be—are firmly established, providing 
much-needed certainty for countries, investors, and 
stakeholders to advance their cooperative approaches. 
But the real work begins now: Only one country-to-country 
transfer has been concluded under Article 6.2 between 
Switzerland and Thailand, mostly due to limited domestic 
regulation and uncertainty around NDC progress. However, 
many countries are full speed ahead in developing domes-
tic frameworks to participate in Article 6. 1 Meanwhile, the 
Article 6.4 Supervisory Body, a separate technical body 
that oversees the operationalization of the Paris Agreement 
Crediting Mechanism - PACM (Article 6.4), will continue to 
meet regularly and are expected to soon approve the first 
methodologies accepted under Article 6.4. They will also 
address critical technical rules that will define what types of 
projects will be eligible and shape the scope and feasibility 
of carbon market investments in various sectors.
What’s next for Article 6? Why have trades not yet taken 
off? Is nature included in Article 6? What about REDD+? 
How does Article 6 impact the Voluntary Carbon Markets 
(VCM)? What about domestic compliance markets? This 
paper offers straightforward guidance on what was decided 
at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (UNFCCC) COPs and dives into the complex 
implications of Article 6 for NDCs, nature and the VCM.

--- PÁGINA 5 ---

Table of Contents
WHAT HAPPENED AT COP29 AND WHAT’S NEXT FOR COP30?   7
WHAT IS ARTICLE 6?   11
HOW IS DOUBLE COUNTING ADDRESSED?   13
WE GOT A DEAL ON ARTICLE 6 - WHEN WILL TRADING SCALE UP?   15
ARTICLE 6 DEMAND: WHO WILL BUY ITMOS?   18
ARTICLE 6 SUPPLY: WHO SELL BUY ITMOS?   22
IS NATURE INCLUDED IN ARTICLE 6? WHAT ABOUT REDD+?   24
HOW DOES ARTICLE 6 IMPACT THE VOLUNTARY CARBON MARKETS (VCM)?   30
CDM TRANSITION: WHAT WAS DECIDED?   32
OMGE AND SOP: WHAT DISCOUNTS AND FEES APPLY TO ARTICLE 6?   33
Click or tap to jump across pagesFigures
Figure 1: Article 6.2 and 6.4 timeline   6
Figure 2: Article 6.2   10
Figure 3: Article 6.4   10
Figure 4: Article 6.8   10
Figure 5: Landscape of carbon credit markets   11
Figure 6: How is double counting addressed?   13
Figure 7: When is a corresponding adjustment needed?   14
Figure 8: Examples of Article 6.2 bilateral agreements  
and Article 6 trades as of May 2025   15
Figure 9: Operationalization of the Paris Agreement Crediting 
Mechanism – PACM (Article 6.4)   17
Figure 10: Cumulative demand for ITMOs until 2030 from  
airlines and buyer countries   18
Figure 11: Examples of seller country developing Article 6 domestic 
frameworks   22
Figure 12: Example of marginal abatement cost curve (MACC)   24
Figure 13: Article 6.2   25
Figure 14: Article 6.4   25
Figure 15: The five activities of REDD+   28
Figure 16: Direct and indirect influences of Article 6 in the VCM   30Terminology boxes
Box 1: What are the CMA, CMP and COP and 
how they relate to Article 6?   9
Box 2: Article 6 Units and their uses   12
Box 3: Article 6 fees and levies   23
Box 4: Nesting   26
Box 5: Natural Climate Solutions (NCS) & 
REDD+   27
Tables
Table 1: OMGE and SOP   33

--- PÁGINA 6 ---

6A6.4A6.2
Article 6.4 not yet operational.  
Further guidance needed on removals 
and methodologies. CMA endorses 
standards on 
removals and 
methodologiesKey decisions will 
be taken by the 
Supervisory Body, 
which continues to 
meet regularly
Fully oper ational2015
Paris 
Agreement
Article 6 is 
established
Article 6.2 
Operational2021
COP 26
Glasgow
Article 6 “Rule 
Book” is finalized
First letter of 
Authorizations 
between Ghana 
and SwitzerlandMore bilateral 
deals and more 
countries as buyers 
and sellersFirst Article 6.2 
trade between 
Thailand and 
SwitzerlandMore countries 
regulating Article 6, 
a key step for 
trades, scale up2022
COP 27
Sharm El-Sheikh
Further technical 
guidance adopted2023
COP 28
Dubai
No decisions adopt-
ed due to political 
disagreements2024
COP 29
Baku
Historic milestone 
with Article 6 
(mostly) finalized2025
COP 30
Belém
No negotiations2028
COP 33
Negotiations 
resume. Review of 
A6.2 and 6.4Figure 1: Article 6.2 and 6.4 timelineWhat happened at COP29  
and what’s next for COP30?
What were the main outcomes at COP29?
Article 6.2
Authorization: One of the main outcomes of COP29 
was a mandate for countries to follow a standardized 
authorization process for Article 6.2, a crucial step for 
transparency. It also brought more clarity to the fact that  
countries can only change or revoke authorizations be-
fore Internationally Transferred Mitigation Outcomes 
(ITMOs) have been first transferred - unless stipulated 
in the bilateral agreements or letters of authorization.2 
This decision strikes a balance, addressing concerns from 
buyer countries and investors who feared that changes 
and revocations could undermine market confidence 
and predictability. On the other hand, it gives flexibility to seller countries that want to mitigate the risk that 
exporting ITMOs could undermine their national climate 
commitments. (See: Risks for seller countries ) The UNF-
CCC  and the World Bank have developed authorization 
templates, but these are not mandatory.3 All authoriza-
tions will be made publicly available on the UNFCCC’s 
Centralized Accounting and Reporting Platform ( CARP ). 
(See: What is an "authorization" under Article 6?) 
Registries: To participate in Article 6.2, countries need 
access to a registry—whether through a national registry, a 
private third-party registry, or an alternative UN-managed 
“Article 6.2 International Registry”  designed for coun-
tries with limited capacity or resources to develop their 
own registries.4 At COP29, countries decided to create a 
dual-tier system for the Article 6.2 International Registry: 
the registry’s primary function is to track ITMOs, but it 

--- PÁGINA 7 ---

7can now include an optional service, managed by the UN, 
for issuing and trading credits. This solution is intended to 
address the needs of countries requiring additional registry 
functionalities from the UN, while avoiding any implied UN 
endorsement of Article 6.2 trades.5 At the same time, it 
leaves some ambiguity about what this extra functionality 
will look like. In parallel, Article 6.4 uses a different registry 
called the Mechanism Registry (Article 6.4), which is not 
yet fully operational as it currently relies upon an interim 
registry approved in February of 2025. (See: Is Article 6.4 
operational?) At COP29, countries decided that the 
Mechanism Registry could connect with the Article 6.2 
international registry and that countries and entities (com-
panies, project developers, investors, etc.) can open holding 
accounts to receive and manage Mitigation Contribution 
A6.4ERs.6 (See: Terminology Box 2)
Reporting: Countries adopted the draft of a reporting 
table to submit information about trades and fulfill their 
reporting requirements, called the Agreed Electronic 
Format. Standardized reporting is crucial to bring trans-
parency to trades, but the decision fell short of making 
this table mandatory.7 Still, it brings a solid common 
ground for trades to be reported. 
Inconsistencies: At COP29, there was a lot of debate 
on what should happen if a trade was identified with 
inconsistencies. Specifically, should these trades be 
restricted so that ITMOs flagged with inconsistencies 
could not be used for NDCs, the Carbon Offsetting and 
Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), 
or the Voluntary Carbon Market? Ultimately, the COP29 
decision stopped short of making this a binding require-
ment and the final text instead only “requests” countries 
to refrain from using such flagged ITMOs, leaving it as a 
recommendation rather than an obligation. (See: What 
if a country fails to apply a corresponding adjustment or 
report inconsistencies?)Paris Agreement 
Crediting Mechanism 
– PACM (Article 6.4)
Standards on methodologies and activities involving 
removals: Day 1 of COP29 concluded with the endorse-
ment of new standards for removals and methodologies, 
resolving a key bottleneck for the Paris Agreement 
Crediting Mechanism – PACM (Article 6.4) - to be -
come operational. Previously, at COP27 and COP28, 
these documents failed to be approved by the CMA 
(See: Terminology Box 1). However, in October 2024, 
the Supervisory Body reclassified these documents 
from “recommendations” to “standards” – a strategic 
move that eliminated the need for further approval at 
COP29. Now, the Supervisory Body has some of the 
main guidelines it needs to start considering and eventu -
ally approving methodologies that will be eligible under 
Article 6.4. The first methodologies to be considered are 
adaptations from the Clean Development Mechanism 
(CDM), but new methodologies will also be assessed 
in the future. Only after methodologies are approved 
can projects be registered under Article 6.4. While the 
Supervisory Body will make the final decision on what 
methodologies will be approved, it will be assisted by the 
Methodological Expert Panel (MEP ), a separate struc-
ture that was created to support the Supervisory Body in 
the development of methodologies and will provide key 
technical guidance on the rules that will govern the Paris 
Agreement Crediting Mechanism – PACM (Article 6.4). 
More flexibility to attract climate finance through 
Mitigation Contribution A6.4 ERs (MCUs): MCUs are 
Article 6.4 units with no corresponding adjustments (See: 
Terminology Box 2). The COP29 decision clarified that 
countries can issue MCUs first, and then later convert 

--- PÁGINA 8 ---

8them into ITMOs, by authorizing them and applying a 
corresponding adjustment - as long as the MCU does 
not leave the official Article 6.4 registry (the Mechanism 
Registry).8 This decision lets countries raise climate 
finance without locking themselves too early into deals 
that might undermine their climate targets in the future 
(See: Article 6 supply ). The Article 6.4 Supervisory Body 
will decide if there should be a time limit for making this 
conversion and report its decision to countries at COP30.9 
It is important to note that aside from the accounting 
requirements, ITMOs and MCUs are identical units.
CDM Transition of afforestation and reforestation proj-
ects: Under Article 6.4, most CDM projects could request 
transition until December 2023. However, the Supervi-
sory Body had postponed decisions on afforestation and 
reforestation projects, leaving their transition in need of 
explicit approval by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the Meeting Parties of the Paris Agreement ( CMA ).10 
At COP29, CDM afforestation and reforestation projects 
were allowed to transition - if they submit a request by 
the end of 202511 and comply with the new standards on 
removals and methodologies, ensuring alignment with up-
dated rules.12 As with all CDM projects, the seller country 
must approve the transition. In practice, afforestation and 
reforestation projects represent only around 1% of the 
projects that requested transitions to Article 6.4. 13 (See: 
CDM Transition)
What is next for 
Article 6? 
The Article 6 process does not end here. While there 
will be no formal Article 6 negotiations until 2028, sig-
nificant work lies ahead to fully operationalize the Paris 
Agreement Crediting Mechanism - PACM (Article 6.4) and scale up high-quality cooperative approaches under 
Article 6.2. Most importantly, the Article 6.4 Supervisory 
Body will now start to consider and approve the first 
methodologies accepted under Article 6.4, following the 
adoption of key standards on methodologies, removals, 
additionality , baselines and leakage. It will also address 
critical technical rules that will shape the scope and 
feasibility of market investments in various sectors. 
Meanwhile, work is also progressing at the UNFCCC 
to build the Article 6 infrastructure, including the 6.4 
Mechanism Registry, the 6.2 International Registry and 
the related platforms.
At COP30 in Belém, there will be no formal Article 6 
negotiations, but countries are expected to react to the 
Article 6.4 Supervisory Body annual report and may 
offer new guidance and considerations that could shape 
its future work.14 Countries are also expected to weigh in 
on the Article 6.2 Initial Reports, which detail information 
about trades and authorizations and it is a pre-condition 
for participating in cooperative approaches. These reports 
are undergoing expert reviews and identified inconsisten-
cies could become a significant topic of debate at COP30.15 
(See: What if a country fails to apply a corresponding 
adjustment or report inconsistencies ). Additionally, the 
deadline for transitioning CDM projects to continue to 
use CDM methodologies goes until December of 2025.16 
Without approved new Article 6.4 methodologies, transi-
tioning projects risk being stranded – an issue that is also 
expected to surface at COP30. (See: CDM Transition)17
What will be negotiated in 2028?
2028 is a pivotal year for the future of Article 6 as countries 
will undertake a full review of both Article 6.2 and 6.4 to 
be completed by 2030.18 How much of the framework will 
change remains to be seen, but the review opens the door 
for rediscussing critical rules shaping international carbon 

--- PÁGINA 9 ---

9markets. Additionally, not all issues related to Article 6 
were resolved at COP29. Some key negotiation mandates 
have been postponed to 2028, leaving gaps to be further 
addressed. One such topic is how to apply corresponding 
adjustments for single-year versus multi-year NDC targets 
to avoid double-counting.19 This is a critical issue to reduce the risk of overselling by countries and to prevent “surpris-
es” in 2030, where countries might fall short of meeting 
their NDCs because they “oversold” ITMOs. (See: Article 6 
supply ) Similarly, discussions on emissions avoidance were 
also deferred to 2028. (See: What is "emission avoidance" 
and how is it related to nature?)
Terminology Box 1
What are the CMA, CMP and COP and how do they 
relate to Article 6?
In the context of the UNFCCC negotiations, these acronyms refer to different governing bodies that oversee 
the implementation of specific agreements.  These three bodies convene every year during the UN COPs. While 
most of the participating countries are the same, they cover different issues and hold discussions in parallel 
in different negotiation rooms. 
CMA: Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement. It was es-
tablished in 2016 to oversee the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The CMA meets every year at COPs 
and is the body in charge of making final legal decisions around Article 6. The Article 6.4 Supervisory Body 
operates under the CMA, so many of its decisions are subject to CMA control, endorsement or approval. 
Beyond Article 6, the CMA also covers the outcomes of the Global Stocktake, Global Goal on Adaptation, New 
Collective Quantified Goal on Climate Finance (NCQG), and others.
CMP: Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting Parties of the Kyoto Protocol. Established in 2005 to 
oversee the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. In past COPs, it has covered guidance related to the Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM).
COP: Conference of the Parties. This body comprises all countries that are part of the UNFCCC. It was established 
when the UNFCCC was adopted during the Earth Summit in Rio in 1992. The Convention entered in force in 1994 
and the first COP meeting (COP1) took place in Berlin in 1995. It covers the dates and venues of future sessions, 
administrative financial, institutional matters and others.  

--- PÁGINA 10 ---

10
Image: Stephane Bidouze, shutterstock.comArticle  6.2
(market) 
Countries can trade Article 6 units through bilateral or multilateral agreements - or 
even through unilateral authorizations. Article 6.2 enables a seller country that is 
on track to exceed its NDC target, to trade units to attract investments and access 
to technologies that might not be available domestically. The buyer purchases these 
units, known as Internationally Transferred Mitigation Outcomes (ITMOs), (See: 
Figure 7) to help meet its NDC in a cost-effective way. 
Despite growing momentum and numerous bilateral agreements being signed, only 
one country-to-country trade has been concluded to date, between Switzerland 
and Thailand. This slow uptake is mostly due to the lack of domestic frameworks 
to implement Article 6, and uncertainty around NDC progress. There have been 
several Article 6.2 transactions between the Government of Guyana and airlines 
for CORSIA compliance, including one cancellation in February 2025.20 (See: When 
will trading scale up?) 
Article 6.2 gives the buyer and the seller a lot of flexibility in how to cooperate. There 
are no restrictions on the sectors or methodologies that can be used, as long as Article 
6.2 requirements are followed. Because of such flexibility, cooperation between coun-
tries has taken different approaches and already includes links with the private sector 
and some regulated carbon markets. Each country is responsible for designing its own 
systems to implement trades and for setting the rules that define how cooperation 
will work in practice. (See: When will trading scale up?)Article  6.4
Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism (PACM)
(market)
Countries can also trade units through a centralized mechanism overseen by the 
United Nations (UN), with standardized methodologies. Article 6.4 is now called 
the Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism (PACM) and builds on lessons from 
the Clean Development Mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol. The Article 6.4 Su-
pervisory Body is the appointed entity responsible for overseeing the mechanism, 
approving methodologies, registering projects, and managing the registry. 
Units issued under Article 6.4, called A6.4 ERs,21 can follow two paths: if they are 
authorized for NDC use, CORSIA or other purposes (such as voluntary claims), they 
receive a corresponding adjustment and become ITMOS.22 When they are not au-
thorized (without a corresponding adjustment), they become Mitigation Contribution 
A6.4 ERs (MCUs) 23 and can be used to mobilize climate finance. ( See Figure 7) Aside 
from the accounting requirements, ITMOs and MCUs are identical units.
While there will be no formal Article 6 negotiations until 2028, significant work lies 
ahead to fully operationalize the Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism – PACM 
(Article 6.4). The Supervisory Body is now moving to a crucial phase of approving 
the first methodologies accepted under Article 6.4, following the adoption of key 
standards on removals, methodologies, and others. It will also address critical 
technical rules that will shape the scope and feasibility of investments in various 
sectors. (See: Is A6.4 operational?)Article  6.8  
(non-market)24
Countries and entities may decide to support other countries, financially or techni-
cally, without any expectation of trading carbon credits (non-market approach). 
Article 6.8 established a framework for the creation of a UNFCCC centralized 
website where countries and other stakeholders could submit projects that are 
being planned and outline where support is needed. This online platform could be 
voluntarily used to facilitate matching projects with financial and technical support 
available in several focus areas. Article 6.8 is less defined than Articles 6.2 and 
6.4 and there is not much clarity on how the mechanism will influence existing 
non-market approaches, such as philanthropic initiatives. Article 6.8 is in phase 2 
of its work programme and there will be a review in 2026. What is Article 6? 
Direct trading of ITMOs between countries and/ or entities, generally through bilateral or 
multilateral agreements, with a high degree of flexibility to define the cooperative approach.
Financial support Financial supportFinancial support or capacity 
buildingArticle 6.2 units (ITMOs)
Seller 
countrySeller country / 
project developerSeller 
countryBuyer country 
/ entityBuyer country 
/ entityBuyer country 
/ entityUNFCCC
UNFCCCUNFCCC web platform could be voluntarily used to facilitate matching projects with 
financial and technical support available in several focus areas
Figure 2: Article 6.2 Figure 3: Article 6.4 Figure 4: Article 6.8
UNFCCC-centralized market mechanism, where units are generated under 
standardized and pre-approved rules and methodologies.


--- PÁGINA 11 ---

11Source: Adapted from AbatableFigure 5: Landscape of carbon credit markets
Domestic 
compliance 
(E.g. EU ETS, 
Singapore’s 
carbon tax)
International 
Aviation  
CORSIA
Paris  
Agreement 
UNFCCC 
Article 6Voluntary 
MarketsDOMESTIC COMPLIANCEVOLUNTARY
INTERNATIONAL COMPLIANCEEligible credits 
could be accepted 
in more than 
one market
Is there a difference between a 
“carbon credit” and an ITMO? 
A carbon credit is a generic term for a unit representing 
one metric tonne of CO2e. At “birth”, a carbon credit 
is simply a certificate stating that a project reduced 
or removed emissions. The same carbon credit can 
then take on “different identities” depending on how it 
is used. For example, if it is used by a company for a 
voluntary claim (without a corresponding adjustment), 
it becomes a “voluntary carbon credit”. If it is authorized 
by a government for use towards another country’s NDC, 
that carbon credit becomes an ITMO. (See: Terminology 
Box 2) Traditionally, standards that have typically served the voluntary carbon market, like Verra, Gold Standard  
and the Architecture for REDD+ Transactions’ (ART) 
REDD+ Environmental Excellence Standard (TREES) 
standard ( ART/TREES ), are now eligible to certify units 
under other markets. For example, Singapore’s carbon 
tax system allows companies to meet obligations with 
ITMOs that may be based on voluntary methodologies. 
In addition, the IETA Article 6 tracker also shows numer -
ous examples of countries having authorized projects 
for Article 6 based on methodologies normally used for 
voluntary purposes. Similarly, CORSIA—the aviation 
sector’s compliance scheme—can source eligible credits 
from standards traditionally used in the voluntary space.

--- PÁGINA 12 ---

12
Terminology Box 2
Article 6 Units and their uses
1 tonne 
of CO2eqMitigation Outcomes: Under Article 6, the term Mitigation Outcomes replaces most forms of 
international carbon credits. If Mitigation Outcomes generated in a country are transferred to 
another country, they become Internationally Transferred Mitigation Outcomes.25
1 tonne 
of CO2eqITMOs are a specific type of carbon credit, created by Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and can be 
used in three ways: for NDC achievement, CORSIA or other purposes, such as voluntary claims (See: 
Figure 7). An ITMO must meet specific requirements: for example, include a corresponding adjustment 
to avoid double counting and follow certain reporting and tracking rules. ITMOs can represent both 
emission reductions and removals from all sectors, and they must originate from mitigation achieved 
from 2021 onward. Since an ITMO requires a corresponding adjustment, its trade reduces a seller 
country’s available emissions reductions or removals for meeting its own NDC. Therefore, it carries 
risks of potentially undermining national climate commitments for the seller country.
1 tonne 
of CO2eqArticle 6.4 ERs: Units issued under Article 6.4, called “A6.4 ERs”,26 can follow two paths:
• ITMOS: Article 6.4 ERs become ITMOs when they are authorized for NDC use, CORSIA or 
other purposes and receive a corresponding adjustment.27 They must also meet standards 
and follow methodologies approved by the Article 6.4 Supervisory Body. 
• Mitigation Contribution A6.4ER (MCUs): These are Article 6.4 ERs generated without a 
corresponding adjustment.28 MCUs can be used to mobilize climate finance for domestic 
climate action. Differently from ITMOs, MCUs are not transferred internationally but instead 
stay within the seller country to help meet its own climate targets. Therefore, MCUs do not 
undermine a seller country’s NDC accounting. MCUs can be converted into ITMOs if countries 
apply a corresponding adjustment, as long as the MCU does not leave the official Article 6.4 
registry (the Mechanism Registry).29 Aside from the accounting requirements, ITMOs and 
MCUs are identical units.
* See also Figure 7 .

--- PÁGINA 13 ---

13What is a corresponding adjustment?
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement addresses double counting 
through corresponding adjustments, an accounting measure 
that prevents two countries from counting the same emissions 
reductions twice. When an ITMO is sold to another country, 
the seller country must add emissions to its accounting, so 
that only the buyer can count emission reductions toward 
their climate goal. This ensures that emissions reductions or 
removals are counted only once.
What is an “authorization” under Article 6?
It is a concept first introduced by Article 6.3 of the Paris 
Agreement which requires countries to “authorize” the use of 
ITMOs towards NDCs. The concept was further developed at 
COP26 to become a key component of Article 6, as it triggers 
a commitment by the seller country to apply a corresponding 
adjustment, as well as reporting requirements.30 While some 
elements must be included, such as how ITMOs will be used, 
there is no mandatory template countries need to follow when 
issuing authorizations. Instead, the UNFCCC has developed a 
voluntary template to guide countries.31 Authorizations can be changed or revoked, but only until ITMOs are first transferred 
internationally, unless otherwise stipulated in the bilateral 
agreements or letters of authorization.32 Normally, when the 
issue of authorization comes up in the Article 6 context, it refers 
to the authorization of ITMOS. However, Article 6 establishes 
three types of authorizations, which could be consolidated into 
one single process:33 authorization of ITMOs, authorization of 
cooperative approaches and authorization of entities.
When is a corresponding adjustment required? 
A corresponding adjustment is required in Articles 6.2 and 
6.4 and for all units authorized by the seller country and 
transferred internationally, including from conditional tar -
gets and sectors outside an NDC.34 Countries must apply a 
corresponding adjustment for units transferred to the buyer 
country’s NDC or for CORSIA. There are a few exceptions 
to the application of corresponding adjustments in Article 6:
• Pre-2020 units: corresponding adjustments are not 
required for pre-2020 Certified Emissions Reductions 
(CERs), which may be transferred to Article 6.4 but only 
used to meet the seller country’s first NDC.35How is double counting addressed?
Figure 6: How is double counting addressed?
NDC targetTransferred 
ITMOs
Buyer countryBuyer country purchases 
ITMOs to address gaps in 
meeting its own climate goalsSeller countrySeller country  can no 
longer use transferred 
ITMOs towards its NDC
NDC target NDC target NDC targetSurplus emissions 
reductionsGap to meet 
NDC
BEFORE ARTICLE 6 TRADE AFTER ARTICLE 6 TRADE
Emission reductions 
become ITMOs
* This is an illustrative example but there are other ways in which an Article 6 trade can happen 

--- PÁGINA 14 ---

14• Mitigation Contribution Units: In 2022, for the first time, 
countries introduced a new name for Article 6.4 units 
that do not require a corresponding adjustment, called 
Mitigation Contribution A6.4 ER (MCU).36 These units 
can be used to mobilize climate finance for domestic 
climate action. (See: Terminology Box 2) 
What if a country fails to apply a corresponding 
adjustment or report inconsistencies? 
Article 6.2 trades will undergo two levels of review. First , 
there will be an automated consistency check,37 designed to 
catch formal mistakes, and second - and more important -
ly - a technical expert review (TER).38 The review looks at 
whether countries are applying corresponding adjustments 
consistently and upholding environmental integrity, for ex -
ample, so there is no net increase in global emissions and so 
conservative baselines are being used.39 The first reports by 
the TER were published in May 2025,40 and there are more 
underway, with experts currently reviewing Initial Reports  
submitted by countries. The conclusions of these early 
reviews are likely to shape how key Article 6.2 rules are in -
terpreted in practice—especially what counts as a significant 
or persistent inconsistency. Therefore, this issue may take 
the stage at COP30, with countries providing key guidance 
on the reach of the review process. If experts find inconsis-
tencies, they can flag them but not block trades. At COP29, 
there was a lot of debate on whether trades identified with 
significant or persistent inconsistencies should be restricted so that ITMOs could not be used for NDCs, CORSIA, or the 
voluntary carbon market. Ultimately, the COP29 decision 
stopped short of making this a binding requirement and left 
it as a recommendation. Still, serious and repeated issues can 
trigger the Paris Agreement Implementation and Compliance 
Committee (PAICC), a separate UN body responsible for pro-
moting compliance with the Paris Agreement, to take action.41 
What is a unilateral authorization? 
A unilateral authorization is used by a seller country to autho-
rize ITMOs even before the buyer is identified, making them 
available for the aviation sector (CORSIA), voluntary markets, 
or other buyer countries. It is different from a “classic” coun-
try-to-country cooperative approach where two countries 
negotiate and authorize ITMOs together. The viability of 
unilateral authorizations took the stage at COP28 and COP29 
under agenda item “definition of cooperative approaches”. 
Some countries feared that “unilateral authorizations” could 
undermine the intention of Article 6.2 to prioritize coopera-
tion between countries and risk complications in the reporting 
and accounting of ITMOs. At the same time, it allows for 
improved flexibility by seller countries and paves the way for 
an expanded market of authorized ITMOs, including for use in 
CORSIA. Ultimately, the proposal to restrict unilateral authori-
zations was rejected in Baku (COP29).42 A few countries have 
issued unilateral authorizations in the past years, including, 
for example, Guyana to allow trades of REDD+ results,43 under 
the ART TREES standard.44
Figure 7: When is a corresponding adjustment needed?
Other international mitigation purposes (e.g. CORSIA)Use towards another NDC
Authorized 
by the seller 
country with a 
corresponding 
adjustment
Non authorized 
by the seller 
country, no 
corresponding 
adjustmentPOSSIBLE USES
Other purposes (e.g. voluntary claim)IS A CORRESPONDING 
ADJUSTMENT NEEDED?
6.4
Mitigation 
contribution6.2 + 6.4
ITMOs
Domestic use
Other purposes (e.g. voluntary claim)

--- PÁGINA 15 ---

15When will Article 6.2 trades scale up?
Article 6.2 has been operational since 2021, and over 
80 bilateral agreements have been signed, but only 
one country-to-country trade (Switzerland-Thailand) 
has been completed as of May 2025 (See: Figure 8). 
This slow uptake is mostly due to the lack of domestic 
frameworks to implement Article 6, uncertainty around 
NDC progress, and the time it takes to develop a solid 
pipeline of carbon projects. Beyond bilateral agreements 
between governments, there have been a few Article 6.2 
transactions between Guyana and airlines for purposes of 
CORSIA, including one cancellation in February 2025.45While COP29 finalized key rules, real scaling up of Arti -
cle 6.2 trades depends on a mix of political, technical and 
institutional readiness. Most decisions around implementa-
tion are left to national governments. Key decisions —such 
as what will be traded, how trades will be operationalized, 
and who will oversee the markets— need to be addressed 
domestically before trading starts to take off. Developing 
these frameworks take time and even when they are in 
place, a more complex issue will arise as seller countries  
define how to participate in Article 6 without undermining 
the achievement of their NDCs. Since an ITMO requires a 
corresponding adjustment, its trade reduces a seller coun-
try’s available emissions reductions or removals for meeting We got a deal on Article 6 -  
when will trading scale up?
Cambodia Cambodia
Colombia Colombia
Costa Rica Costa RicaBhutan BhutanBenin Benin
Chile Chile
Dominican Republic Dominican Republic
Papua New Guinea Papua New Guinea
Paraguay Paraguay
Peru PeruGhana GhanaGabon GabonFiji Fiji
Indonesia Indonesia
Jordan Jordan
Philippines Philippines
Senegal Senegal
Sri Lanka Sri LankaMongolia MongoliaMalaysia MalaysiaMorocco MoroccoMalawi MalawiLaos LaosKenya KenyaKazakhstan Kazakhstan
Rwanda RwandaNepal Nepal
Vietnam VietnamUzbekistan Uzbekistan
Vanuatu VanuatuThailand Thailand
Tunisia Tunisia
Ukraine Ukraine
Uruguay Uruguay
Zambia ZambiaDominica Dominica
Georgia GeorgiaKuwait Kuwait
United Arab 
EmiratesUnited Arab 
EmiratesNorway Norway
Singapore Singapore
South Korea South KoreaLiechtenstein Liechtenstein
Switzerland SwitzerlandSweden Sweden
*This graph was adapted from IETA’s Article 6 Tracker and does not include 
cooperation under Japan’s JCM, which can be seen here.Figure 8: Examples of Article 6.2 bilateral agreements and Article 6 trades as of May 2025
ARTICLE 6 TRADES ARTICLE 6.2 BILATERAL AGREEMENTS