DOCUMENTO: CM-TNC-Article-6-Explainer
PARTE 2 de 3
Páginas 16 a 30
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 16 ---

16its own NDC. ( See: Article 6 Supply ). Buyer countries and 
investors, in turn, must manage risks that sellers may fail to 
apply corresponding adjustments, or restrict ITMO exports 
due to NDC achievement concerns. As a result, buyer coun-
tries are diversifying their deals across multiple countries. 
Buyer countries such as Switzerland had already started to 
develop Article 6.2 pilots in 2020, even before the Article 6 
rules were agreed upon at COP26. In 2022, Ghana became 
the first country to issue an official authorization letter  
for the export of ITMOs of a climate-smart rice project to 
Switzerland, 2 years after the agreement between Ghana and 
Switzerland was signed in 2020. In addition, for countries 
developing a new pipeline of projects, it may take years until 
these can generate carbon credits. 
Is Article 6.4 operational? 
The Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism – PACM (Article 
6.4) is not yet fully operational - but it is getting closer. The 
initial supply of Article 6.4 units is expected to come in the 
first half of 2025 from transitioned CDM projects. However, 
a pipeline of new projects might have to wait until 2026, 
once updated methodologies are approved and the registry 
is operational.46 The Supervisory Body will start to consider 
and approve the first methodologies that will be eligible under 
Article 6.4, following the approval of the standards on meth-
odologies, removals, additionality , baselines and leakage. 
While the rules that are being approved might seem highly 
technical, their consequences are far-reaching: Further work 
on standards and tools will determine what is eligible under 
Article 6.4 and shape the scope and feasibility of carbon 
markets investments in various sectors. These decisions will 
also influence the market far beyond Article 6.4, setting ex -
pectation for what counts as "high-integrity" in the voluntary 
carbon markets and compliance markets. (See: Article 6 and 
the VCM). Here’s a summary of where key elements stand 
and what needs to happen next: 47
ALREADY OPERATIONAL
• Projects transitioning from the CDM: CDM projects are 
allowed to transition to Article 6.4 and continue to use their original CDM methodologies until December 2025.48  
This makes these projects the first to potentially gen-
erate Article 6.4 units, as they do not need to wait until 
new methodologies are approved by the Supervisory 
Body. In February of 2025, a cookstove project in Myan-
mar became the first CDM project to officially transition 
into Article 6.4.49
• Safeguards and grievance mechanisms: Safeguards and 
grievance mechanisms ensure the social and environmen-
tal integrity of projects, including equitable benefit-sharing 
with local communities and Indigenous peoples, and 
provide a platform for stakeholders affected by projects 
to voice concerns. The Sustainable Development Tool  
(SD Tool) was adopted in October 2024, representing a 
key milestone for the operationalization of Article 6.4. It 
is the first mandatory safeguards assessment under the 
UNFCCC and it applies to all Article 6.4 projects, including 
transitioning CDM projects. Additionally, the Supervisory 
Body has adopted grievance procedures, waiving fees for 
those wanting to make complaints.50
NOT YET FULLY OPERATIONAL
• Approval of new methodologies: As of May 2025, 
no new methodologies have yet been approved under 
Article 6.4. This is a major roadblock: without approved 
methodologies, new projects cannot be registered. The 
first wave of methodologies will be adapted from the 
CDM, including grid-connected electricity generation 
from renewable sources, thermal energy production waste 
management, and clean cooking. See the full list here. 
The first Article 6.4 methodologies will be considered 
by the Supervisory Body in August 2025.51 In the future, 
non-CDM methodologies, including from independent 
crediting standards, could also be submitted for approval.
• Approval of new projects: Without approved method-
ologies, new projects cannot be registered. However, 
there are already procedures partially in place to guide 
the design and implementation of new Article 6.4 
projects, including the Article 6.4 activity standard 
for projects and the Article 6.4 activity standard for 
programmes of activities (PoAs).

--- PÁGINA 17 ---

17• Additional Standards and Tools: In addition to the 
standards on removals and methodologies endorsed 
at COP29, the Supervisory Body has continued to 
develop key elements. As of May 2025, it has adopted 
standards on additionality , leakage and setting base-
lines and will continue to work on key issues such as 
addressing non-permanence and large-scale crediting 
programs, which is expected to include specific pro-
visions on jurisdictional REDD+. A list of all products 
related to methodologies can be found here. 
• Mechanism Registry: The Mechanism Registry is the 
official record for all Article 6.4 activities — including issuance, transfer, and cancellations. As of May 2025, 
this registry is not yet fully functional. An interin ver -
sion was launched in February 2025 to allow limited 
transactions, but it lacks key features, such as distin-
guishing between different types of units (like MCUs 
and ITMOs). Full registry functionality is essential for 
scaling up the market. At COP29, countries decided 
that the Article 6.4 registry (Mechanism Registry) 
could connect with the Article 6.2 international registry 
and that countries and entities (companies, project 
developers, investors, etc.) can open holding accounts 
to receive and manage A6.4 Mitigation Contributions.52
Figure 9: Operationalization of the Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism – PACM (Article 6.4) 
November
2024
COP 29November
2025
COP 30February-May
2025
Supervisory 
Body2026
Fully 
operational
CMA endorses 
standards on 
removals and 
methodologies.Adoption of additional 
standards on additionality , 
baselines, and leakage.
Interim registry.
Transition of 1st CDM 
projects.SBM will report 
on PACM’s 
progress.
Countries may 
offer additional 
guidance.Methodologies 
approved.
Mechanism 
registry fully 
operational.
Article 6.4

--- PÁGINA 18 ---

18Who will buy ITMOs? 
Demand for ITMOs is emerging, even as the market 
remains in its early stages (See: When will trading 
scale up?). While there is still uncertainty around fu-
ture volumes, announcements from buyer countries and 
CORSIA projections start to offer a picture of how the 
market is taking shape. Figure 10 provides a conservative 
estimate of potential Article 6 demand, based on what 
we know today:• Government-to-government trades under Article 6.2 
are still in early stages, with only a handful of countries 
such as Switzerland, Singapore, Sweden, Norway, South 
Korea and Japan actively pursuing bilateral deals. (See: 
Figure 8). Country buyers represent a relatively small 
share of overall demand, around 32%. This includes 
both direct purchases from countries (e.g., Sweden and 
Norway) and demand from companies that may buy 
ITMOs to meet regulatory requirements or to reduce 
tax liabilities – such as firms covered by Singapore’s Article 6 Demand: Who will buy ITMOs? 
Airlines (Corsia)
466 MtCO2eDemand from CORSIA
466MtCO2eDemand from buyer countries
219 MtCO2e
Japan
100 MtCO2e
South Korea
37.5 MtCO2eSingapore
25.1 MtCO2e
Sweden
20 MtCO2e
Switzerland
20.3 MtCO2eNorway
16.1 MtCO2eDemand for ITMOs until 2030
685 MtCO2e
* Estimates from all buyer countries and CORSIA are detailed in endnote 53
** Countries like Liechtenstein, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have announced interest in purchasing ITMOs, 
but tangible demand numbers were either not announced or a relatively small, therefore, they were not included in Figure 10Figure 10: Cumulative demand for ITMOs until 2030 from airlines and buyer countries53
Source: Demand estimates by South Pole AG, and adapted by TNC

--- PÁGINA 19 ---

19
Carbon Tax. Countries like Liechtenstein, Kuwait, 
and the UAE have announced interest in purchasing 
ITMOs, but tangible demand numbers were either 
not announced or a relatively small, therefore, they 
were not included in Figure 10. Some other countries, 
such as New Zealand, are negotiating bilateral deals 
and keeping the door open for Article 6, but have 
not yet announced potential demand. Demand from 
governments could increase in the coming years as 
more countries are considering the use of international 
credits to help meet 2030 or 2040 targets. For exam-
ple, France and Germany have signaled support for the 
use of international carbon credits as part of the 2040 
climate goals. Because these are high emitters, it could 
significantly increase demand for ITMOs. In addition, 
the conclusion of Article 6 negotiations at COP29 and 
the future full operationalization of the Paris Agree-
ment Crediting Mechanism – PACM (Article 6.4) may 
also encourage broader participation (See: When will 
Article 6 trading scale up?).
• The bulk of current demand comes from airlines partic-
ipating in CORSIA, the international aviation offsetting scheme, which is expected to drive around 68%  of to-
tal Article 6 demand in the near term (See: Figure 10).  
Since CORSIA requires credits with a corresponding 
adjustment, airlines are expected to purchase ITMOs 
under Article 6.2 or 6.4, aligned with methodologies 
formally eligible under CORSIA. There have already 
been several Article 6.2 transactions between airlines 
and the Government of Guyana for purposes of COR -
SIA, including one cancellation in February 2025.54
• Beyond governments and airlines, there are early 
signs that private companies are starting to look to 
Article 6 units for trading, or making voluntary claims  
backed by corresponding adjustments. 55 While there 
is currently no robust data on how demand from cor -
porations will evolve, and it is therefore not reflected 
in Figure 10, a 2024 survey from IETA found that 69% 
of the 105 companies that were interviewed intend 
to buy ITMOs over the next five years.56 The full 
operationalization of the Paris Agreement Crediting 
Mechanism - PACM (Article 6.4) will likely increase 
demand for ITMOs and MCUs from the private sector. 
(See: Is A6.4 operational?)

--- PÁGINA 20 ---

20Examples of buyer countries’ Article 6 strategies:
 Switzerland: Switzerland’s NDC 3.0 com-
mitted to a 65% emissions reduction target 
by 203557 and to continue to use Article 6, 
which is consistent with the country’s 17 existing inter -
national carbon agreements.58 Unlike some countries 
that provide authorization at the first ITMO transfer, the 
Swiss Government is not directly involved in commercial 
transactions with private buyers but simply authorizes 
the programs to give the private sector investment se-
curity. Buyer companies are fossil motor fuel importers 
from the transport sector, who fulfill their obligations 
under the Swiss CO2 Law through the Klik Foundation.59 
Projects to date have mostly focused on solar, clean 
cookstoves, waste management, biogas, and energy 
efficiency/fuel conversion.
Switzerland’s announced demand: 
20.3 MtCO2e (2025-2030)
 Japan: Japan’s NDC 3.0 committed to 
a 60% emissions reduction target by 
2035.60 Japan has pursued a long-stand-
ing bilateral approach to international carbon markets, 
well before Article 6 rules were finalized through its Joint 
Crediting Mechanism (JCM), which now aligns with Ar -
ticle 6.2.61 What is unique about Japan’s approach is the 
idea of getting authorization of ITMOs from seller coun-
tries in exchange for investment. Japan’s companies make 
an equity investment and then agree with seller country 
that a portion of the results will be correspondingly ad-
justed as the investors’ share, relative to their investment. 
Japan has signed agreements with 29 countries,62 includ-
ing Vietnam, Indonesia, Kenya, and Bangladesh. 
Japan’s announced demand: 100MtCO2e by 2030 
and approximately 200 MtCO2e by 204063 Norway: Norway plans to leverage Arti-
cle 6 to become climate neutral by 2030,64 
meaning the government will ensure that 
remaining emissions are offset by emissions reductions 
in other countries.65 The government focuses on trans-
acting emission reductions from policies, as opposed 
to project-level activities, and in the lead up to COP29 
announced $740 million USD will be committed to sup-
port developing and emerging economies to transition to 
low-carbon societies under Article 6. Norway has signed 
bilateral cooperation agreements with Morocco, Senegal 
and Indonesia. Baselines to measure the mitigation of 
energy sector policies implemented in partner countries 
are being developed.66
Norway’s estimated demand:  
16.1Mt CO2e up to 2030.67
 Sweden: Sweden falls under the EU’s NDC, 
which will not use ITMOs to meet 2030 
targets. As per the country’s latest BTR, 
Sweden will only use ITMOs beyond the EU NDC and 
towards its domestic targets or voluntary offsetting.68 
Sweden has signed bilateral agreements with Ghana, 
Nepal, Zambia and the Dominican Republic,69 cooperating 
with both public and private stakeholders. It also signed 
a MOU with Switzerland on industrial carbon removals, 
with the engagement of the private sector. 
Sweden’s estimated demand: 20 MtCO2e70

--- PÁGINA 21 ---

21
 Singapore: Singapore’s approach 
combines sovereign demand – direct pur -
chases from the Singapore government 
– and private sector compliance. Similar to Switzerland’s 
approach, companies are directly involved in purchasing 
and using Article 6 credits to comply with the country’s 
Carbon Tax to offset up to 5% of their taxable emissions 
from 2024 onwards.71 Singapore is second only to Japan 
in the number of international agreements signed under 
Article 6 (See: Figure 8). The country has also developed a 
framework with Verra and Gold Standard with streamlined 
procedures to help countries use independent crediting 
standards to implement Article 6.2 deals.72
Singapore’s announced demand: 
25.1 MtCO2 eq 2021-203073
 South Korea: The government of South 
Korea has bilateral agreements with 
over 10 countries.74 The country uses 
official development assistance (ODA) to help partner 
countries build the institutional and technical capacity 
needed to participate in cooperative approaches. These 
ODA grants or concessional loans are not tied to specific 
mitigation activities and do not result in ITMO transfers. 
Through a separate mechanism, Korean government 
agencies run competitive calls for “potential Article 6 
projects” that engage the Korean private sector. They fund 
pre-feasibility and full feasibility studies and—if results 
are promising—may offer up-front capital support. This 
support is conditional on public funds being matched at 
least 1:1 by Korean private investment.75
South Korea’s announced demand: 37.5 Mt Co2e76

--- PÁGINA 22 ---

22
Article 6 Supply: Who will sell ITMOs? 
Who will sell ITMOs?
The supply side of Article 6.2 is gradually expanding with 
several countries actively entering into bilateral deals 
under Article 6.2, developing regulatory frameworks to 
participate in Article 6 and building a pipeline of projects 
to generate ITMOs (See: Figure 11). Countries such as 
Ghana, Kenya , Paraguay , Indonesia, Zambia, and many 
others have already put in place domestic Article 6 strat -
egies, getting closer to becoming active suppliers. 
What risks should seller countries 
consider when trading under Article 6?
Article 6 offers seller countries an opportunity to attract 
international finance through carbon markets. However, 
it also carries risks, particularly the risk of overselling. To  
explain: under the Kyoto Protocol, developing countries 
had no binding targets for decarbonization and could 
sell carbon credits internationally without affecting their national accounting. Because in the Kyoto Protocol only the 
buyer (developed countries) had mitigation targets, double 
counting was not an issue. Under the Paris Agreement, ev -
ery country has committed to reducing emissions through 
NDCs. Now, if a country sells an ITMO internationally, 
it needs to apply a corresponding adjustment to avoid 
double counting. This creates a new challenge for seller 
countries: trading too many ITMOs – especially from low-
cost mitigation - could leave a seller country only with more 
expensive options to meet its NDC. Furthermore, ITMOs 
require over-achievement of the seller’s NDC, to ensure 
the aggregate level of emissions is not increased by the 
transaction. Therefore, seller countries have been careful-
ly considering which types of mitigation activities, what 
quantities and at what price they are willing to authorize. 
Within this, they might also choose to limit eligible credits 
to specific sectors, years, or technology types. Brazil, for 
example, recently adopted legislation creating a domestic 
market, explicitly stating that authorization of ITMOs is 
subject to limits in order to ensure NDC achievement.Figure 11: Examples of seller country developing Article 6 domestic frameworks
Bilateral 
agreements
1 or 0
2
3 or more

--- PÁGINA 23 ---

23To manage this risk while still benefiting from climate 
finance, seller countries are introducing different 
strategies through domestic legislation and policy. Key 
trends include: 
• High-Hanging Fruit Approach: Under this approach, 
countries authorize ITMOs only from mitigation activ -
ities that are too expensive or difficult to implement 
domestically. Cheaper activities (the “low-hanging 
fruit”) are reserved for domestic implementation to 
help the seller country meet its own NDC at a lower 
cost. This approach often involves restricting Article 6 
trades to sectors or activities linked to conditional  
NDC targets (See: Figure 12).77 For example, Ghana  
created a whitelist of eligible sectors covered by its 
conditional target and reflected in its National GHG 
Inventory. Zambia uses Marginal Abatement Cost 
Curves (MACCs) to identify low-cost mitigation 
options for domestic implementation. This approach 
tends to strengthen the case for additionality but pos-
es practical challenges, particularly where countries 
lack clear data on the cost of mitigation options or have not clearly distinguished between conditional 
and unconditional elements of their NDCs.
• Corresponding Adjustment Fees: Some countries are 
introducing fees or levies to apply a corresponding 
adjustment. Ghana, for example, charges a $5 flat 
fee per ITMO to raise ambition beyond the NDC 
and cover administrative costs. Kenya ’s regulation 
included two types of fees: an administrative fee of 
1% of expected credits and a 0-25% tax on revenue 
from projects. Tanzania  has proposed a levy of 8% on 
a project’s sold credits and 1% on a project’s expected 
credits. While a corresponding adjustment fee alone 
might not prevent the risk of overselling, it helps to 
raise domestic revenue and compensate for some of 
the loss of mitigation activities needed to meet NDCs. 
But this approach may also come with trade-offs if 
not designed according to specific national circum -
stances: applying a flat fee across all activities can 
undermine the financial viability of higher-cost (and 
often more additional) mitigation efforts, potentially 
discouraging investment in the “high-hanging fruits” 
that Article 6 is meant to unlock.78
Article 6 fees and levies
When designing Article 6 strategies, countries have often developed different types of fees. Here’s a summary: 
• Corresponding Adjustment fees: designed to compensate for some of the loss of mitigation activities 
needed to meet the seller country NDC
• Administrative fees: designed to cover administrative costs of participating in Article 6, such as 
running an Article 6 focal point office and meeting reporting requirements. 
• Fees to fund adaptation and OMGE: Although these are not required for Article 6.2, they are “encour -
aged on a voluntary basis” (See: OMGE and SOP )
• Benefit Sharing (e.g: with local communities): As countries are defining strategies to avoid the risk 
of overselling, a broader consideration is how the benefits from exporting ITMOs are shared among 
different stakeholders, such as states, provinces, municipalities, project developers and the communi-
ties that participate in the activity or are impacted by it.Terminology Box 3

--- PÁGINA 24 ---

24
• Limits on quantities, buffer pools and benefit-shar -
ing: Some countries are also setting caps on ITMO 
exports, implementing buffer pools, or developing 
benefit-sharing arrangements to avoid the risk of 
overselling. These limits can take various forms, such 
as limiting crediting periods (e.g., only authorizing 
ITMOs from the first 10 years of a project) or ben-efit-sharing rules that may cap the share of credits 
that can be authorized (e.g., only 10% of credits from 
a given project) to ensure domestic retention. Ghana 
has specified that all activities must reserve 1% of 
mitigation outcomes for domestic use, while Indone-
sia provides a range of between 10-20% for mitigation 
activities that are included in the NDC. Marginal cost/tonne CO2e High LowEfficient LightingHybrid 
VehiclesIndustrial Process 
ImprovementsWind 
EnergyClean 
CookstovesReforestationElectric Buses
Cheaper mitigation activities - reserved for domestic 
implemetation to meet the seller country's NDCOften these are linked with 
unconditional NDC targetsMore expensive mitigation activities 
- available to Article 6Figure 12: Example of marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) to illustrate how countries can reduce 
the risk of overselling
Source: Adapted from Bloomberg New Energy, 2010

--- PÁGINA 25 ---

25Is nature included in Article 6? 
What about REDD+?
Article 6.2
Is nature included in Article 6.2? 
Yes. Natural Climate Solutions (NCS) include protecting, 
restoring and managing natural ecosystems such as 
forests, mangroves, croplands, grasslands, and peatlands 
– all of which fall under the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) definitions of emissions reductions 
or removals. ITMOs include both emission reductions and 
removals, regardless of the sector where they come from 
and there are no limitations on the types of units that can 
be traded. 79 As a result, nature activities that lead to ei-
ther emission reductions and/or removals can be eligible, 
as long as Article 6 guidance is met, such as the inclusion of 
a corresponding adjustment and reporting requirements.80 
It will be up to countries to decide if they want to include 
nature activities as part of their Article 6 agreements. Given 
their high mitigation potential and relatively low cost, nature 
activities could represent a significant share of the Article 6 
market. Several countries — including Japan, South Korea, 
Singapore, Guyana, and Ghana — have already expressed 
intent to include nature in their cooperative approaches.81 Article 6.4
Is nature included in Article 6.4? 
Yes, as long as relevant methodologies are approved 
by the Article 6.4 Supervisory Body. Under Article 6.4, 
there are no limitations on the sectors or activities for 
which methodologies can be submitted or approved. 
Therefore, emission reductions and removals from all 
sectors (including nature) could generate Article 6.4 
units. As of May 2025, no methodologies have been 
approved, though the Supervisory Body will start with 
CDM methodologies, which include afforestation and re-
forestation. (See: Is A6.4 operational?) Nature can play 
a particularly important role, not only for its mitigation 
benefits but also for its ability to enhance adaptation 
and resilience, as they can provide additional environ-
mental and social benefits. The Supervisory Body has 
already adopted important rules around methodologies, 
removals, additionality , baselines and leakage. Future 
decisions and further guidance around these issues will 
significantly shape the scope of nature activities allowed 
in Article 6.4.
Financial supportArticle 6.2 units (ITMOs)
Seller countryBuyer country 
/ entity
Financial 
supportSeller country / 
project developerBuyer country 
/ entityUNFCCC
Yes, natural climate solutions, including REDD+ activities, are included in Article 6. As is the case for all sectors, the land 
sector is not explicitly referred to in the text, however, nature activities could be eligible for Article 6 trades, provided 
the programs fulfill the Article 6 guidance. (See: Terminology Box 5)
The standard on removals, endorsed at COP29, applies not only to carbon removal activities, but also to emission reduction 
activities that carry a risk of reversal — a key provision that directly affects nature-based activities and has gone largely unnoticed.Figure 13: Article 6.2 Figure 14: Article 6.4

--- PÁGINA 26 ---

26Terminology Box 4
Nesting
Under Article 6.4, “nesting” refers to the alignment of relevant aspects of project-level REDD+ activities within 
an existing higher programme, such as national or subnational REDD+ framework.99 For example, ensuring 
alignment with monitoring systems, safeguards, baselines, etc. It may vary significantly country-by-country - in 
some cases, it might just be an acknowledgment that project-based activities are subtracted from national 
results to avoid double-counting, while complying with the national or subnational REDD+ program.Is REDD+ included in Article 6.2? 
Yes. REDD+ includes five activities: reducing emissions 
from deforestation, reducing emissions from forest 
degradation, conservation of forest carbon stocks, sus-
tainable management of forests, and enhancement of 
forest carbon stock. All of these activities fall under the 
definition of emission reductions or removals (See: Fig-
ure 14), and therefore, are within the scope of an ITMO.82 
As is the case for all sectors, seller countries will need to 
demonstrate how their REDD+ programs fulfill Article 6 
requirements, in additional to the Warsaw Framework. 
Recently, there have been dozens of Article 6.2 trans-
actions of REDD+ results between Guyana and airlines 
for CORSIA purposes, under the ART/TREES standard, 
including one cancellation in February 2025.83 (See:  
Unilateral authorization)Is REDD+ included in Article 6.4? 
REDD+ activities could be eligible under Article 6.4, 
should the Supervisory Body approves REDD+ related 
methodologies. In 2024, the Supervisory Body introduced 
additional conditions for project level REDD+ activities 
to be eligible under Article 6.4, (See: Figure 15) limiting 
eligibility of REDD+ activities to countries that already 
have REDD+ requirements in place.84 This is the first 
time that there is a direct reference to REDD+ in the 
text, confirming that REDD+ activities could be credited 
under Article 6.4. These measures aim to ensure better 
coordination, environmental integrity and avoid double 
counting, while still allowing REDD+ to benefit from much 
needed finance under Article 6.4.85 These rules apply 
only to project-level activities. Specific requirements 
for “large scale crediting programs”, which may include 
jurisdictional REDD+, will be developed in 2026.86 
Article 6.4 rules for REDD+
There are two:100
1. “REDD+ activities” (project-level) will only be eligible un-
der Article 6.4 if the seller country has implemented all 
four REDD+ requirements of the Warsaw Framework: 
a national REDD+ strategy or action plan, a safeguards 
system, a national monitoring system, and an assessed 
forest reference emission level (FREL).101
2. In addition, the “REDD+ activity” needs to be included 
in the four elements of the national REDD+ strate-
gy.102 (See: Figure 15)If the seller country does not have a REDD+ strategy sub-
mitted to the UNFCCC, or the activity is not included in the 
REDD+ strategy, the seller country’s “REDD+ focal point” (not 
the Article 6 focal point) needs to submit a letter indicating 
when the activity will be included in all 4 elements mentioned 
above. This inclusion needs to happen no later than the veri-
fication phase.103 In practice, to fulfill this condition, countries 
will need to align project-level activities with national REDD+ 
frameworks. Therefore, this creates a de fato requirement 
that REDD+ activities “nest” with national REDD+ programs 
through “upscale”.104 (See: Terminology Box 4).

--- PÁGINA 27 ---

27Terminology Box 5
Natural Climate Solutions (NCS) & REDD+
Both “natural-climate solutions” and “REDD+” are approaches that aim to mitigate climate change and promote 
sustainable land use practices.105 While NCS is a broader concept that includes a range of actions to protect, 
restore and manage a variety of ecosystems such as forests, mangroves, croplands, grasslands, and peatlands, 
REDD+  is a specific UNFCCC framework aimed at financially compensating countries and jurisdictions for 
reducing emissions from deforestation. To benefit for REDD+ finance, countries have to follow all four REDD+ 
requirements of the Warsaw Framework: a national REDD+ strategy or action plan, a safeguards system, a 
national monitoring system, and an assessed forest reference emission level (FREL).106
But wasn’t REDD+ excluded from the Article 6 text? 
No. At COP26, specific text on REDD+ was proposed 
to allow the recognition of pre-2021 REDD+ results to 
be automatically included under Article 6.2. ITMOs, by 
definition, are generated in 2021 or later. Therefore, this 
text was rejected to ensure that Article 6.2 has consistent 
rules across all sectors (including land use). As mentioned 
before, the Article 6.2 text does not explicitly mention any 
sectors, and the exclusion of specific text on REDD+ did 
not change the fact that all REDD+ activities fall under 
the concepts of emission reductions and removals being 
eligible for Article 6 trades. In addition, the Article 6.4 
Supervisory Body has created specific conditions for 
REDD+, which confirms its potential future eligibility.87 
(See: Is REDD+ included in Article 6.4?)
What about Article 6.8? 
Although Article 6.8 is less defined than Articles 6.2 and 
6.4, nature-based activities and REDD+ programs meet 
the Article 6.8 requirements. Article 6.8 could serve as 
testing grounds for nature activities that could eventually 
become market-based approaches but are not yet ready 
for markets: for example, most historical payments for 
REDD+ came from non-market bilateral deals and multi-
lateral funds, such as the World Bank. These non-market 
payments helped countries to improve their REDD+ programs and now many REDD+ countries can apply 
for market-based programs like Lowering Emissions by 
Accelerating Forest Finance (LEAF).88 Article 6.8 could 
also facilitate financial flows for non-market approaches 
that may never transition into a market, due to a limited 
volume of results, but may offer higher co-benefits and 
strong equity components.
What is the relationship between REDD+ 
(Article 5.2)89 and Article 6 of the Paris Agreement? 
Article 5.2 of the Paris Agreement encourages countries 
to implement and support REDD+ policies. This recog-
nition builds on several years of UNFCCC negotiations 
which resulted in the Warsaw Framework for REDD+ 
and the Cancun safeguards, with rules for developing 
countries to be financially compensated for reducing 
deforestation and forest degradation, through public and 
private sources. While Article 5.2 of the Paris Agreement 
provides methodological guidance for results-based fi-
nance, it is not a financial mechanism in itself. On the 
other hand, Article 6 could be one of the sources of 
finance for REDD+ and a way to enhance ambition in 
forest targets. The Supervisory Body has provided crucial 
clarification on the relationship between Article 5.2 and 
Article 6, establishing nesting requirements for the eligi-
bility of REDD+ in Article 6.4.90 (See: Is REDD+ included 
in Article 6.4?) 

--- PÁGINA 28 ---

28To access finance for REDD+ via Article 6,  forest 
countries need to, first , meet all the Warsaw Framework 
minimum requirements: Develop a national REDD+ action 
plan, a forest monitoring system (MRV), comply with 
REDD+ safeguards, have an assessed Forest Reference 
Emission Level (FREL). The coordination between subna -
tional jurisdictions and national governments in this phase 
is important to ensure policy alignment. 
As a second step, countries might need to engage in 
additional activities to access market payments for 
REDD+. Article 6.2 offers a more flexible approach, 
allowing the seller country and buyer to define specific 
requirements. They could, for example, choose to use 
independent carbon standards, such as ART/TREES or 
Verra’s Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+ Framework (JNR), which require buffer pools for leakage and rever -
sals, and third-party verification processes, all of which 
are not required by the Warsaw Framework.91 Under 
Article 6.4, specific standards are still under development, 
but eligible methodologies must also meet requirements 
that go beyond the Warsaw. 
As a third step, countries developing REDD+ programs 
will need to demonstrate how their REDD+ activities com -
ply with Article 6 rules. For example, generating results 
after 2021, providing authorizations for the application 
of corresponding adjustments and complying with Arti -
cle 6 rules on registries, tracking, reporting, addressing 
inconsistencies, etc. Ultimately, it is up to the countries 
to decide whether to include REDD+ in the scope of 
their Article 6 strategies. Since an ITMO requires a 
Figure 15: The five activities of REDD+
Emission reductions Removals
Reducing 
emissions from 
deforestationConservation 
of forest 
carbon stocks*Reducing 
emissions from 
forest degradationSustainable 
management  
of forests*Enhancement of forest 
carbon stocks (afforestation, 
reforestation)1 2 3 4 5
* The Warsaw Framework does not define “conservation of forest carbon stocks” or “Sustainable management of Forests”. Countries have interpreted these categories 
differently: in official submissions to the UNFCCC, they have reported both emission reductions and removals from these activities. See the examples of Chile 2016 
and 2023 and Malaysia. We have included dotted gray lines to reflect this ambiguity. For REDD+ activities to be eligible for Article 6, they have to fall under the 
categories of emission reductions or removals. Emissions avoidance is not eligible for crediting under Article 6 (See: What is emissions avoidance?). 


--- PÁGINA 29 ---

29corresponding adjustment, exporting ITMOs reduces a 
country’s available emissions reductions for meeting its 
own NDC and, therefore, carries risks of overselling and 
potentially undermining national climate commitments. 
On the other hand, because ITMOs carry a corresponding 
adjustment, they might reach higher market prices.92 
What is “emission avoidance”  
and how is it related to nature? 
Emissions avoidance activities are not eligible under Ar -
ticle 6, at least until 2028.93,94 This decision has sparked 
confusion about the concept of emissions avoidance and 
whether this undefined term could potentially include 
natural climate solutions. A key reason for this confusion 
is that the term emission avoidance has never been offi-
cially defined by the UNFCCC nor the IPCC, and it is not 
even referenced within the IPCC’s definition of mitigation 
of climate change.95 A second source of confusion comes 
from voluntary carbon market jargon,  where carbon 
credits are either categorized as “emissions removals” 
or “reductions/ avoidance”, often used interchangeably, 
despite important distinctions.96
In the context of Article 6:
• Emission reductions are additional and would not 
have happened without human intervention. For 
example, when deforestation occurs, emissions from 
land use are released into the atmosphere. If a govern -
ment implements REDD+ policies that successfully 
reduce deforestation rates (measured against a his-
torical baseline, for example), this constitutes an 
emission reduction, not avoidance. • Emission avoidance: In contrast, “emissions avoid-
ance” are not necessarily additional and not measured 
against a historic baseline. For example, emissions 
avoidance has been used informally in the context of 
UNFCCC negotiations to reference a proposal from 
the Government of Ecuador from 2012 regarding com -
pensation for its Yasuní initiative to keep oil reserves 
in the ground .97 In this context, emission avoidance 
refers to policies and measures that explicitly forgo 
the opportunity to develop fossil fuel resources. For 
instance, avoiding drilling new oil reserves that have 
not yet been exploited, and are not at risk of exploita-
tion in the future.
The CDM has also characterized methodologies under 
emissions avoidance defining it as “various activities 
where the release of GHG emissions to the atmosphere 
is reduced or avoided, for example, avoidance of an-
aerobic decay of biomass and reduction of fertilizer 
use”.98 These also refer to activities where a mitigation 
intervention would reduce the rate of existing emis-
sions, which ultimately would fall under the definition 
of emission reductions.
Because of this confusion, many have assumed that all 
natural climate solutions are classified as emissions 
avoidance and are therefore excluded under Article 6 
— but this is incorrect. In fact, natural-climate solutions 
include protecting, restoring and managing natural eco-
systems – all of which fall under the IPCC definitions of 
emissions reductions or removals. As a result, nature 
activities that lead to either emission reductions (e.g. 
reduced deforestation) and/or removals (e.g. reforesta-
tion) can be eligible under Article 6.2 and Article 6.4, 
provided they meet Article 6 requirements.

--- PÁGINA 30 ---

30How does Article 6 impact the VCM? 
The Paris Agreement does not have the mandate to regu-
late the voluntary carbon market. However, the rules and 
practices emerging from Article 6 are slowly reshaping the 
broader environment in which the voluntary carbon mar -
kets operate (See: Figure 5 ). Although the Article 6 market 
is in its early stages, and it is expected that voluntary 
transactions will continue to exist in parallel to Article 6 
cooperation, some changes have already been happening.
• Seller country requirements: Ultimately, it will be up 
to the seller country to determine if Article 6 rules will 
apply to voluntary credits. When countries regulate 
Article 6 domestically, they often also introduce 
broader rules that affect all carbon projects (includ -
ing those intended for the VCM). Some countries 
have required voluntary project developers to have 
government registration, approval, authorization, or 
non-objection/notification at various project develop-
ment stages. Governments have regulated the scope 
of activities that can be implemented under a volun-How does Article 6 impact the Voluntary 
Carbon Markets?
tary program or set minimum requirements for social 
and environmental safeguards and benefit-sharing. For 
example, Kenya  requires at least 25% of the benefits 
from a project to be allocated to local communities. In 
some cases, countries are going further. The Bahamas, 
for example, requires a corresponding adjustment for 
all voluntary credits sold internationally, though most 
countries have not gone in this direction.
• Market requirements: Even if some countries do not 
regulate the voluntary carbon markets, initiatives like 
the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market 
(IC-VCM) and the Voluntary Carbon Markets Integ -
rity Initiative (VCMI) could drive the market towards 
Article 6 alignment. For example, both initiatives have 
considered whether a corresponding adjustment would 
be required for all voluntary credits and as of May 
2025, neither the IC-VCM nor the VCMI have gone 
in this direction. These market initiatives are shaping 
how companies and Governments view “high-quality” 
offsets. For example, countries, like France, the United 
Kingdom and Paraguay , announced alignment with 
IC-VCM principles in their domestic carbon policies.Figure 16: Direct and indirect influences of Article 6 in the VCM
Market 
requirementsVoluntary standard 
requirements 
Voluntary Carbon MarketSeller country 
requirements Article 6 
requirements
VCM