DOCUMENTO: Ecosystem Marketplace State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025 (1)
PARTE 3 de 3
Páginas 31 a 45
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 31 ---

26                                                           Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
first CCP-approved credits to begin trading on the 
market in August 2024.
Category assessments for CCP approval take 
place either through an internal assessment 
process or a multistakeholder working group 
process, which includes experts from within 
and outside ICVCM. At the end of July 2024, 
ICVCM released the first category approvals 
for Landfill Gas, ODS, and Leak Detection/
Repair in Gas Systems2 project methodologies, 
which were assessed by an internal working 
group. Simultaneously, the determinations 
from the multistakeholder group reviewing 
renewable energy were released, rejecting most 
methodologies that used CDM tools to calculate 
additionality of new renewable energy projects. 
In November 2024, the multistakeholder group 
focusing on REDD+ approved three REDD+ 
methodologies: two jurisdictional REDD+ 
methodologies from ART and VCS, and the 
project-based VM0048 methodology. The last 
category approvals in 2024 were for ARR projects 
using the VM0047 methodology, in December. 
While these approvals were seen as a sign of 
support for Forestry and Land Use credits in the 
VCM, very few CCP-approved REDD+ credits 
and no approved ARR credits are available yet 
for trading as of the publication of this report. 
Only two jurisdictional REDD+ programs from 
ART have issued credits: the Guyana and Costa 
Rica programs. VM0047 and VM0048, both 
developed by Verra, the developer of the VCS 
standard, are new methodologies. Credits will be 
issued in both of these methodologies from both 
new projects, as well as projects transitioning 
from other methodologies. The first VM0047 ARR 
project was registered in April 2025, and Verra is 
still collecting and publishing baseline data that 
will be required for REDD+ projects to transition.
Of the three project categories with an existing 
supply of CCP-approved credits on the market, the 
most liquidity in 2024 was from Landfill Gas, with 
3.1 million tons traded over the year, a 149 percent 
increase in volume from the year before. There 
were 927,000 tons of Fugitive Emissions credits 
traded, and 135,000 tons of ODS credits traded, an 
increase in volume for both of these project types 
as well. Although the record of CCP-approved 
2 Included in the Fugitive Emissions cluster in EM’s project 
type taxonomy.credit transactions is brief, approval seems to be 
clearly affecting the price of Landfill Gas credits, 
with the average price of CCP-approved credits in 
this project type increasing by 35 percent from the 
first half of the year to the second (Figure 8).
Looking forward to 2025 and beyond, the impact of 
continued project category approvals or rejections, 
including the approval of Household Biodigester 
and Efficient Cookstoves methodologies in 
February 2025, is sure to significantly reshape the 
VCM. However, as the lack of available approved 
ARR and REDD+ credits demonstrates, simply 
approving a project type is only the first step in 
delivering supply of CCP-approved credits to the 
market. As credit-issuing standards update their 
methodologies to bring them into compliance 
with the CCPs, there is a lag in validation for 
projects that wish to switch to these updated 
methodologies, and that can delay CCP-approved 
credits from reaching buyers and end users.
EM Respondents shared that ICVCM approval 
was one of the issues that was front of mind for 
them in 2024, with 22 percent of Respondents 
to our qualitative survey mentioning the CCPs 
specifically in their unstructured responses, and 
36 percent mentioning ICVCM more generally. 
The majority of Respondents had a positive 
view of the CCPs, with 33 percent saying they 
would have a strong positive impact and 30 
percent saying they would have a weak positive 
impact (see EM Respondent Sentiments on 
the VCM in 2024, p 29). Respondents noted 
that the availability of CCP-approved credits 
on the VCM had an immediate impact, with 
some Respondents able to sell credit types 
that were previously less attractive to buyers. 
However, other Respondents, while cautiously 
optimistic toward the CCPs, noted that they 
also introduced additional complexity and, 
thus, increased projects costs and credit prices. 
This could ultimately deter risk-averse buyers, 
especially from project types like IFM that have 
not yet undergone category assessments. 
At the moment, it appears that the immediate 
outcome of ICVCM’s CCPs has been to create 
a subset of highly assured credits, which are 
viewed with the greatest confidence in emissions 
mitigation impact and responsible development. 
However, ICVCM’s internal and multistakeholder 
working groups cannot publish category 
assessment decisions fast enough to satisfy all 

--- PÁGINA 32 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025    27
market actors while also maintaining integrity 
and consistency in applying the CCPs across 
diverse project types. 
There will always be some carbon projects 
which lie outside of the CCPs, either because 
they are developed using a standard that is not 
included or because the market share of the 
project type is too small for ICVCM to prepare a 
category assessment. This includes novel project 
types, which inherently have small market share 
because they have not yet scaled up. For the 
VCM to continue to progress as a mechanism 
that allows for experimentation in establishing 
new project types for emissions reductions 
or removals financed by carbon credits, the 
assurance and deliberation of ICVCM’s CCPs 
need to be paired with an equal spirit of impact-
driven innovation and risk-taking outside of the 
bounds of existing approved project types.Independent Credit Ratings Agencies
 ●Independent rating agencies that 
score the quality of carbon credits have 
emerged as a service helping inform 
buyers’ evaluations of carbon project 
quality. However, inconsistency between 
different agencies’ methodologies for 
evaluating projects can cause confusion 
for buyers and frustration for suppliers.
Another type of initiative that continues to gain 
traction for denoting project quality in the VCM 
is independent, privately-owned carbon credit 
ratings agencies, including BeZero, Sylvera, MSCI, 
and Calyx Global. These companies intend to Figure 8. Transaction Volume for CCP-Eligible Carbon Credits Compared to Total VCM, 2020-2024
Standard not ApprovedProject Type not ApprovedREDD+/ARR - No approved 
credits as of 2024
Cookstoves/Biodigesters
Approved in February 2025Unknown - Project data 
insuﬃcient No - Rejected/outdated 
methodologiesYes - CCP-approvedGreenhouse Gas Destruction 
(Landﬁll Gas, Fugitive 
Emissions, ODS)
Nature-based Solutions
Household/Community Devices
Not CCP-eligible04080120160200
0510152025Landﬁll Gas, ODS, and Fugitive Emissions Volumes 
from CCP-Eligible Standards Volume (MtCO2e)
Volume (MtCO2e) Volume (MtCO2e)Volumes from All CCP-Eligible 
Project Types and Standards
Total Transaction Volume, 
by CCP Approval Status
2020 2021 2022 2023 20242020 2021 2022 2023 2024
0100200300400600
500
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Note: The left chart includes transaction volumes for credits from Landfill Gas, ODS, and Fugitive Emissions project types issued 
by ACR, CAR, Gold Standard, and VCS, the only standards which had issued CCP-eligible credits for these types as of 2024. The top 
right chart includes the volumes at left and adds reported transactions from Cookstove Distribution, ARR, and REDD+ credits from 
these standards, as well as the ART Jurisdictional REDD standard. The bottom right chart includes annual transaction volume from 
all standards and project types, including those which have been rejected or which have not been assessed by ICVCM to date.
Section Insights

--- PÁGINA 33 ---

28                                                           Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
become the equivalent of credit ratings agencies 
in bond markets, providing neutral analysis of 
carbon projects to determine their quality and 
integrity. The ratings analysis and methodologies 
are variously defined as including adherence 
to the principle of additionality, proper use of 
methodological tools for carbon accounting, 
the permanence of emissions reductions 
or removals, the degree of operational risk 
associated, and the presence or absence of social 
and/or environmental co-benefits. 
Because credit ratings agencies use opaque 
methodologies, which they have designed independently from their competitors, they 
do not produce the same results in all cases. 
Nineteen percent of Respondents answering our 
sentiment survey mentioned credit ratings, with 
many noting the uncertain impact and potential 
to confuse buyers, while others suggested the 
growth of ratings indicates a maturing market. 
It’s important to note that EM’s Respondents 
represent the supply side of the market, who 
see ratings as another layer of due diligence for 
buyers. Meanwhile many buyers view ratings as 
a useful tool for purchasing decisions, despite 
some confusion from the inconsistencies of 
ratings across the different agencies.
Key Terms
Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement:  A framework for international cooperation in achieving 
set ambitions around climate action, known as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) , 
through market and non-market mechanisms.
Article 6.2: Permits two or more countries to cooperate bilaterally to trade Article 6.2 units directly.
Article 6.4: Permits countries to trade credits through a central carbon crediting mechanism, 
the Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism (PACM), which is a registry of projects approved for 
international credit trading and is overseen by the UN’s 6.4 Supervisory Body, which will approve 
methodologies, register projects and maintain the registry. Host countries are permitted to trade 
credits with not only buyer countries, but other entities as well through PACM.
2024 was a historic year for implementation of Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement. At COP29 
in November, nine years after the Paris Agreement entered into force, countries finally agreed on 
core elements of Article 6.4 and approved the rules governing the PACM, which is required for 
implementation of Article 6.4. In January 2024, Switzerland and Thailand completed the first ever 
transfer of Article 6.2 carbon credits. Consequently, market participants have high expectations of 
the impact that Article 6 mechanisms, particularly 6.2 and 6.4, will have on demand and supply in 
the VCM as they anticipate the operationalization of Article 6 going into 2025.
In 2024, countries continued to engage bilaterally through agreements or other official statements 
that demonstrate their intention to trade mitigation outcomes under Article 6.2. Over the past 
year, there were eight Bilateral Agreements (BAs), nine Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) 
and two other types of agreements signed. As of April 2025, there were a total of 96 cooperative 
agreements (BAs, MoUs, and other types) in place between 59 different countries. The ways in 
which countries can trade 6.2 credits bilaterally to address their NDCs will vary according to each 
agreement. Countries must consider not only their own, but the other country’s NDC needs and 
national carbon strategy, such as carbon taxes, implementation of national carbon registries, etc., 
when negotiating the terms of the bilateral trade. 
As of March 2025, PACM, the 6.4 mechanism, approved its first credits, from a cookstove project 
transitioning from the CDM. These credits were from a renewable energy methodology that was 
rejected by ICVCM during assessment for CCP eligibility. It is estimated that over one thousand 
CDM projects have applied for PACM approval.  (continued)Box 3. Current and Future Implementation of Article 6 Mechanisms

--- PÁGINA 34 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025    29
While the UNFCCC has positioned the PACM as the UN’s high-integrity carbon crediting 
mechanism, many are concerned about the potential approval of low-quality CDM projects to 
transition to the new standard. The approval of these outdated credits from older methodologies 
would flood the market with a supply of low-quality credits and also call into question whether 
Article 6.4 can be considered an indicator of high-integrity credits.
While market participants eagerly await the effects of Article 6.2 and 6.4 mechanisms on supply 
and demand in the VCM, it is not yet clear what effect the operationalization of Article 6 will have 
on the market. The impact of Article 6.2 on the VCM will be dependent on country strategies for 
addressing their NDCs and how their 6.2 transactions fit into those strategies for both the host and 
buyer countries. The impact of Article 6.4 on the VCM will also take time to understand, as PACM 
is developing slowly as all parties advocate for their own interests in the multilateral process. In 6.4 
negotiations where the buyer is a company hoping to meet its emissions offsetting needs, only the 
host country must consider how the trade will impact their NDCs.
Market participants reflected on the impact of Article 6 policy developments on the VCM in EM’s 
qualitative sentiment, with 58 percent of Respondents saying Article 6 would have a positive impact 
on the VCM. Despite this optimism, the survey also reflected uncertainty about how quickly Article 
6 mechanisms can be operationalized, with 61 percent of Respondents saying that the jurisdictions 
where they transact credits were not ready to participate in Article 6 carbon markets. These 
sentiments further reflect the combination of high expectations paired with the reality of the pace 
of Article 6 implementation.Box 3. Current and Future Implementation of Article 6 Mechanisms  (Continued)

--- PÁGINA 35 ---

30                                                           Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
 ●Respondents’ perception of their relative 
volume and value of carbon credit sales 
in 2024 was diverse, reflecting divergent 
trajectories for project types within the VCM.
 ●In 2024, government policies were 
perceived as an increasingly important 
factor in supporting or limiting the 
VCM. Forty one percent of Respondents 
identified government policies as 
important, more than double the 
proportion from 2023, highlighting their 
anticipation of the expected impact of the 
Article 6 implementation on the VCM.
 ●Respondents anticipate beneficial impacts 
from ICVCM’s CCPs on the VCM, with 64 
percent viewing it positively. 
 ●Respondents view companies’ climate 
targets as less important in 2024 than 
in 2023, with some sophisticated credit 
buyers pursuing offsetting strategies 
outside of frameworks like SBTi.
In addition to collecting quantitative data on 
VCM transaction volume and value in 2024, 
EM also surveyed EM Respondents to capture 
qualitative feedback and market sentiments on 
the VCM in 2024. EM received survey responses 
from 66 Respondents. These nuanced views and 
individual narratives illustrate how complex even 
a single year of market activity can be. 
Respondents’ individual reports on volume and 
price movements in 2024 confirm the diverse 
trajectories for different market segments around 
the world. For example, while overall market 
volume reported to EM by Respondents fell from 
2023 to 2024, more Respondents answering 
our survey said that their transaction volume 
had increased (27) than those who said volume 
decreased (20). In terms of price, the plurality of Respondents (21) said that their average credit 
sale price in 2024 was about the same as the 
year before. While reported average prices from 
transactions declined six percent from 2024, this 
transaction price decline does not appear to be 
evenly distributed across all respondents. This 
demonstrates the wide variety of outcomes across 
the market, which continues to motivate new 
entrants that have novel approaches to project 
development and credit marketing.
For the second year, we asked Respondents 
about their perception of the most important 
external factors affecting their sales of carbon EM Respondent Sentiments on the 
VCM in 2024
Figure 9. Respondent Perception of Sales Volume and 
Credit Price Trajectory, 2023 to 2024Count of Respondent
Volume Price010203040506070
Not Sure/OtherDecreased by 20% or moreDecreased by less than 20%About the sameIncreased by less than 20%Increased by 20% or more2314
1121
91315 945
55Section Insights

--- PÁGINA 36 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025    31
credits. The most frequently identified factor 
was coverage by media publications, with 
43 percent of Respondents including this in 
their response, the same share as in 2023. 
The second most important external factor 
affecting the VCM was government policy, 
which 42 percent of Respondents selected, a 
major increase from the 17 percent identifying 
government policy as a key factor last year. 
Companies’ climate targets receded slightly as 
a key factor driving VCM developments, with 
only 36 percent of Respondents selecting this, 
compared to 48 percent of Respondents in 2023. 
Another emerging factor in 2024 was credit 
certifications, with 30 percent of Respondents 
indicating certifications’ importance in their 
response, compared to just nine percent of those 
completing the survey last year.
The growing emphasis on government 
policy and credit certification and declining 
importance of voluntary climate targets was 
reflected across responses to our survey. We 
asked Respondents about their perception of 
the impact of two key market developments in 
2024: the operationalization of ICVCM’s CCPs 
and Article 6 of the Paris Agreement (see ICVCM 
Core Carbon Principles section, p 24, and Box 3, Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, p 27). On the 
whole, Respondents view both as beneficial 
to the VCM, with 64 percent saying the CCPs 
would have a positive impact and 58 percent 
saying Article 6 would have a positive impact. 
More Respondents thought Article 6 would have 
a neutral impact, with 35 percent saying the 
impact would be neither positive nor negative, 
compared to 26 percent who indicated the 
same about the CCPs. 
Despite the anticipated positive impact of Article 
6 operationalization, 61 percent of respondents 
said that the jurisdictions where they transact 
credits were not ready to participate in Article 
6 carbon markets. Thus, while anticipation of 
and support for Article 6 developments is high, 
market participants question how quickly Article 
6 mechanisms will be implemented globally and 
directly impact VCM supply, demand, and growth.
Respondents also had the opportunity to provide 
unstructured responses on several questions, 
including on the subjects of positive and 
negative factors in the VCM and the impact of 
ICVCM. These responses provide more context 
to Respondents’ answers to the other multiple-
choice questions in the survey. Figure 10. Respondent Perception of the Most Important External Factors Influencing Credit Sales, 2023 vs. 2024Percent of Respondents
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Media
publicationsGovernment
policiesCompanies'
climate targetsCredit issuances 
by standardsCertiﬁcations Other2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 202443% 43%
17%42%48%
36%
24%
9%30%28%
20%

--- PÁGINA 37 ---

32                                                           Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
Respondents provided nuanced perspectives 
on how some of the same initiatives driving 
optimism in the VCM also create confusion and 
concern when market actors lack clarity on 
how to operationalize potentially contradictory 
recommendations. In particular, Respondents 
brought up ICVCM and ratings agencies 
repeatedly (36 percent and 19 percent of 
responses, respectively), both as potential drivers 
of demand towards high-quality projects, and as 
opaque gatekeepers whose findings are difficult 
to communicate to credit buyers and other VCM 
stakeholders. 
Consistent with Respondents’ perception of the 
most important external factors affecting their 
credit sales, only 10 percent of Respondents 
mentioned the Science Based Targets 
Initiative (SBTi) in the unstructured section of 
their survey. This appears to be indicative of 
the growing importance of regulated credit 
markets flowing into demand from domestic 
compliance markets and international 
commitments negotiated through Article 
6, over the declining influence of voluntary 
decarbonization frameworks like SBTi.Figure 11. Respondent Perception of ICVCM’s Core 
Carbon Principles and Article 6 on VCM, and Article 6 
Readiness
ICVCM CCPs Article 6
Strong positive
Weak positive
Neither positive 
or negative
Weak negative
Strong negative010203040506070Count of Respondents
ReadinessExpected impact on VCMLocal jurisdiction 
Article 6 preparation
Very ready
Somewhat 
ready
Not ready417 2321
2022 17
16
40

--- PÁGINA 38 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025     33
The past year of market activity and policy 
development in the VCM has felt challenging 
at times for its participants, much like 2022 
and 2023, which were similar years of market 
contraction. However, EM’s carbon market 
research, anchored by actual realized transaction 
data sourced from project developers, credit 
aggregators, and intermediaries, reveals more 
nuanced trends in credit supply and demand. 
With the decline in transaction volume slowing 
to a 25 percent annual decrease, compared 
with the 50 percent of transaction volume lost 
annually over the course of 2022 and 2023, 
and with average credit prices sticking above 
$6/tCO2e during the same period, the VCM of 
2024 is structurally different from what came 
before. With multiple interrelated approaches 
to quality and integrity, VCM actors can make 
more informed choices around credit supply and 
demand that reflect their intended values.
As in the past two years, EM has observed 
distinct trajectories for credits from different 
project types and with different attributes. The 
Forestry and Land Use category has been the 
largest category by transaction volume since 
2021, and in 2024 it became the category with 
the most credits retired annually. The category 
continues to evolve and place more emphasis 
on IFM projects and nature-based removals, 
such as ARR, as a driver of value. As 99 percent 
of removal credits sold on the market are from 
nature-based projects, increased buyer demand 
for removals has supported the market value of 
Forestry and Land Use credits.
The much-anticipated operationalization of 
ICVCM’s Core Carbon Principles in 2024 was 
limited in practice to three project types, but 
CCP approval has already led to a 35 percent 
increase in price for credits from eligible 
Landfill Gas projects, which drove a 3X increase 
in transaction volume for the Waste Disposal 
category compared to 2023. As ICVCM continues to approve project types for eligibility and 
standards continue to make credits from newer 
methodologies available on the market, this 
mark of integrity will drive buyer demand to 
diverse project types. Registry data shows that 
retirements are holding a steady pace, and 
frameworks like the CCPs provide buyers with 
confidence to continue to invest in carbon 
credits that meet relatively high levels of 
integrity.
Many other important developments in the 
market during 2024 indicated sustained 
ambition towards fulfilling the positive potential 
of the VCM, including the full approval of 
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, the beginning 
of the first compliance phase of the CORSIA 
international aviation decarbonization scheme, 
and the continued growth of independent 
credit ratings agencies. It is clear that the 
market has been compelled to introduce 
multiple frameworks for quality and integrity. 
This is to the benefit of credit buyers, who now 
have an increased number of options for how 
to communicate their choices around credit 
purchases and offsetting strategy.
In 2024, the VCM functioned effectively in 
advancing climate mitigation by continuing to 
drive innovation towards new types of credit-
generating projects. While 50 percent of the 
market trades below average price, 25 percent 
of transactions come from project types that 
trade above average price, including improved 
cookstoves projects, IFM, and carbon removal 
methodologies, such as ARR and engineered 
removals. The future evolution of the VCM will 
come from these project types, as well as project 
types that have yet to gain prominence. As a 
driver of innovation towards climate action and 
a key conduit for private finance for a green 
transition, the VCM continues to advance, and 
results across different segments of the market 
in 2024 are beginning to bear fruit.Conclusion

--- PÁGINA 39 ---

34                                                            Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
Data and MethodologyAppendices
 ●3Degrees
 ●ACCIONA
 ●Across Forest AS/Across 
Nature AS
 ●AGL
 ●Agrocortex
 ●Agroempresa Forestal
 ●Agroinsider
 ●Akre
 ●ALLCOT
 ●Anew Climate
 ●Appalachian Mountain Club ●Arbor Day
 ●Beijing Qianyuhui 
International 
Environmental 
Investment Co., Ltd. (QYH)
 ●BioCarbon Partners
 ●Biofílica Ambipar 
Environment
 ●BIOFIX
 ●BOCS Foundation
 ●Bonneville Environmental 
Foundation
 ●Bosques Amazonicos ●BRCarbon
 ●Canopée
 ●Carbonapp
 ●Carbone boréal (Université 
du Québec à Chicoutimi)
 ●Carbon Expert
 ●Carbonext
 ●Carbon Offsets To Alleviate 
Poverty (COTAP)
 ●CarbonReset
 ●CarbonStore - Tillhill
 ●Carbon TanzaniaMost of the data in this report comes from self-
reported transaction data from EM Respondents, 
typically project developers, investors, and 
intermediaries (i.e., sell-side market participants). 
Data on project registrations, credit issuances, 
and credit retirements are sourced from carbon 
standard registries. In the 2025 State of the VCM 
Report, EM included data from the American 
Carbon Registry (ACR), Architecture for REDD+ 
Transactions (ART), BioCarbon, Climate Action 
Reserve (CAR), Clean Development Mechanism 
(CDM), Cercarbono, Global Carbon Council (GCC), 
Gold Standard, Plan Vivo, and Verified Carbon 
Standard (VCS) registries.
Average carbon credit prices are volume-
weighted, calculated from transactions with 
reported price and volume (the majority of 
transactions reported to EM). To calculate the total 
transaction value, this average price is multiplied 
by the total volume of transactions (including 
transactions without an associated price). In other 
words, the volume-weighted average price for 
transactions with price is assumed to extend to 
transactions reported without price.For project registrations, only projects that had 
been approved by the relevant registry were 
included, whether or not credits were issued 
for projects. EM used the provided project 
registration date where available; for Gold 
Standard projects, the date of the first credit 
issuance for a project was used for the date 
of project registration. Any reserve or buffer 
volume from registry data on issued credits 
was removed, where provided data made that 
possible.
EM is the world’s largest repository of VCM 
transaction data, however, the volumes 
presented throughout this report should not 
be considered to be a complete representation 
of market trading activity. EM works actively to 
engage with all market participants. As reporting 
to EM is voluntary, and many market actors are 
not yet reporting to EM, the actual volume of 
credits transacted in the voluntary market is 
likely higher than the amounts published here. 
See a list of EM Respondents from the past two 
years whose data is represented in this report 
below.
EM Respondents, 2023-2024

--- PÁGINA 40 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025     35
 ●Cawa Tech
 ●CBL Markets (Xpansiv)
 ●CIMA
 ●Clean Air Action 
Corporation (TIST Program)
 ●Climate Bridge Ltd.
 ●ClimeCo
 ●C-Neutral
 ●CO2CERO
 ●CO2Logic
 ●Conservation International
 ●Cool Effect
 ●Cooperativa AMBIO 
Programa Scolel’te
 ●C-Quest Capital
 ●Credible Carbon
 ●Eco2librium
 ●ECOEYE
 ●Econegocios
 ●Ecopart Assessoria em 
Negocios Empresariais 
Ltda. (EQAO)
 ●Ecosecurities
 ●Ecosphere+
 ●EKI-EnergyServices
 ●El Guásimo
 ●Emergent Ventures
 ●ENGIE
 ●Enviro-Mark Solutions Ltd 
(trading as Toitū Envirocare)
 ●Everland
 ●FairClimateFund (formerly, 
Hivos Carbon Credits)
 ●Fondo Accion
 ●Forest Carbon Ltd (UK)
 ●FORLIANCE GmbH ●Fundação Carbon Offset 
Timor (FCOTI)
 ●Fundación para 
el Ecodesarrollo 
y la Conservación 
(FUNDAECO)
 ●Future Climate
 ●Futuro Forestal
 ●Global Forest Partners
 ●global-woods 
international AG
 ●GoodPlanet
 ●Gould International
 ●Greenoxx
 ●Grupo Ecologico Sierra 
Gorda
 ●Highland Carbon
 ●ID Water
 ●Infinite Solutions
 ●Inlandsis Fund
 ●Integrador de 
Comunidades Indígenas 
y Campesinas de Oaxaca 
AC (ICICO)
 ●King County, Washington
 ●Land Carbon Ltd
 ●Livelihoods Venture
 ●Louis Dreyfus Company
 ●MEXICO2
 ●Microsol
 ●Mongolian Society for 
Rangeland Management
 ●Nature Conservancy 
Canada
 ●Nedbank
 ●Nideport
 ●Nordic Offset ●OurOffset
 ●Pachama
 ●Point Zero International
 ●PRIMAKLIMA
 ●Pronatura
 ●Prosustentia
 ●Proyecto Mirador
 ●Quadriz
 ●Rabobank
 ●Relief International
 ●Rubicon Carbon
 ●Sanko Enerji
 ●Soluciones Proambientales
 ●South Pole
 ●Swiss Climate
 ●Sylvestris
 ●Taking Root
 ●Terra Global Capital
 ●The Association for Coastal 
Ecosystem Services (ACES)
 ●The Climate Trust
 ●The Future Forest Company
 ●The Nakau Program
 ●The Nature Conservancy
 ●The Voluntary Climate 
Marketplace
 ●The Woodland Trust
 ●Timing Carbon Asset 
Management Co., Ltd.
 ●Trees for Life
 ●TreeStory
 ●UPM
 ●VNV
 ●We Are Neutral
 ●WeForest
 ●ZeroMission

--- PÁGINA 41 ---

36                                                            Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
Glossary of Terms
Additionality: Additionality describes the basis for issuing carbon credits for project activities that 
would not occur without finance from the sale of credits. Carbon credits can only be issued if the 
reduction or removal of carbon emissions would not otherwise have taken place. For example, a solar 
energy installation that would be profitable to build without the sale of carbon credits is not considered 
additional, but a cookstove distribution project that reduces the burden of deforestation is additional, 
because deforestation would continue at a high rate if the cookstoves were not supplied to local 
communities. Different project methodologies have specific modules for calculating project additionality.
Afforestation-Reforestation/Revegetation (ARR): A group of Forestry and Land Use project 
types that establish new forests or restore deforested/degraded forests through tree planting and 
revegetation. ARR projects generate nature-based removal credits.
Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement: A framework for international cooperation in achieving set 
ambitions around climate action, known as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), through 
market and non-market mechanisms. See Box 3, page xx for details. 
Article 6.2: Permits two or more countries to cooperate bilaterally to trade Article 6.2 units directly.
Article 6.4: Permits countries to trade credits through a central carbon crediting mechanism, the 
Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism (PACM). Host countries are permitted to trade credits with 
not only buyer countries, but other entities as well through PACM.
Blue Carbon: A group of Forestry and Land Use project types that reduce/remove carbon dioxide 
from marine and coastal environments by restoring, conserving, or managing ecosystems, including 
wetland, mangrove, and seagrass habitats.
Co-benefits:  Social or environmental benefits provided by a project in addition to the greenhouse 
gas emission reductions/removals that generate carbon credits. For example, a project that restores 
natural ecosystems and has benefits for carbon storage, biodiversity, and local communities. Credit 
standards can indicate if a project provides certain co-benefits through independent certifications 
(e.g., Verra’s Climate, Community, and Biodiversity certification for projects that contribute to 
biodiversity) or by indicating which UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that the projects 
contribute towards.
Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA): A compliance 
program for offsetting emissions from international aviation, operated by the International Civil 
Aviation Organization (ICAO). Only certain credits that meet ICAO’s eligibility criteria—specific 
standards, methodologies, co-benefits, project locations, and vintages—can be used as offsets for 
CORSIA. CORSIA’s pilot phase ran from 2021 to 2023, and its first implementation phase began in 2024. 
Carbon Tax:  A carbon tax sets a price on carbon by defining a tax rate on greenhouse gas emissions. 
It is different from an Emissions Trading Schemes (ETS) in that the emission reduction outcome of a 
carbon tax is not pre-defined but the carbon price is.
Credits: The individual units of greenhouse gas emissions reducing/removing activities that are 
issued by carbon market standards, and then bought, sold, and retired by the various carbon market 
actors (project developers, intermediaries, end users, etc.). Each credit is denominated as one 
metric ton of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) and corresponds to the estimated amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions that a project removes or reduces from the atmosphere.
Emissions Trading Schemes (ETS): Often referred to as a cap-and-trade system, ETS cap the total 
level of greenhouse gas emissions and allow those industries with low emissions to sell their extra 
allowances to larger emitters. By creating supply and demand for emissions allowances, an ETS 

--- PÁGINA 42 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025     37
establishes a market price for greenhouse gas emissions. The cap helps ensure that the required 
emission reductions will take place to keep the emitters within their pre-allocated carbon budget.
End User/End Buyer: An entity (individual, company, organization, etc.) that purchases carbon 
credits, either directly from the project developer or from an intermediary, with the intention of 
retiring the credits to claim as offsets against emissions (see Retirements).
Engineered Credits: Credits generated by projects that use technological solutions to reduce or 
remove greenhouse gas emissions. This includes projects in the following categories: Chemical 
Processes/Industrial Manufacturing, Energy Efficiency/Fuel Switching, Household/Community 
Devices, Renewable Energy, Transportation, and Waste Disposal.
Greenhouse Gases (GHGs): Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere and lead to global warming. 
Carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, and nitrous oxide are the primary greenhouse gases emitted into the 
atmosphere by human activities contributing to climate change.
Greenwashing: Misleading characterizations of corporate actions to address environmental issues 
that make company efforts seem more impactful than they are. Companies claiming emissions 
offsets using low-quality carbon credits face the risk of being accused of greenwashing.
Improved Forest Management (IFM): A group of Forestry and Land Use project types that implement 
forest management activities to increase carbon storage in forests, and/or reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions from forestry activities. This cluster does not include projects that fall under the REDD+ 
framework (see REDD+). 
Issuance: Following a project’s registration, once it begins to generate emissions reductions or 
removals, a third-party auditor will verify that the methodology applied in the project design is being 
followed and confirm that the climate impact of the project is in line with expectations, allowing the 
standard to issue credits to the project developer.
Methodology: The technical documentation that describes the procedures and requirements for 
specific types of project activities, including procedures for quantifying the volume of greenhouse gas 
emissions reduced and/or removed by the project. Some projects will use multiple methodologies 
to cover different elements within a single project. Standards may develop their own methodology 
documentation and/or provide a list of methodologies from other standards that they will accept. 
Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC): NDCs represent efforts by each country to reduce 
national emissions and achieve set goals around climate ambition. The Paris Agreement requires 
each Party to prepare, communicate, and maintain NDCs that it intends to achieve.
Nature-based Credits: Credits generated by projects that achieve greenhouse gas emissions reductions 
or removals by conserving, restoring, and/or managing natural and agricultural ecosystems. All projects 
within EM’s Agriculture and Forestry and Land Use categories are considered nature-based credits. 
Net-zero: An organization is considered to have achieved net-zero emissions when it reduces at least 
90 percent of initial emissions and compensates for the residual emissions through offsetting with 
carbon credits. Net-zero is a more stringent standard than the related term “carbon neutral,” which 
does not require emissions abatement and can be accomplished through emissions offsets alone.
Paris Agreement Crediting Mechanism (PACM): A registry of projects approved for international 
credit trading and is overseen by the UN’s 6.4 Supervisory Body, which will approve methodologies, 
register projects, and maintain the registry.
Project Category: Category is the broadest classification level that EM uses to group projects by 
the type of activities involved. EM has eight Project Categories: Agriculture, Chemical Processing/

--- PÁGINA 43 ---

38                                                            Meeting the Moment: Renewing Trust in Carbon Finance
Industrial Manufacturing, Energy Efficiency and Fuel Switching, Forestry and Land Use, Household/
Community Devices, Renewable Energy, Transportation, and Waste Disposal. Within each category, 
EM groups projects into more specific Project Clusters and the most specific Project Types.
Project Registration: When a credit issuing standard determines that a prospective project meets 
the necessary criteria established in a published methodology, including third-party validation and 
assurance, and gives official approval to list the project in that standard’s registry. Once registered, a 
project can submit requests for credit issuances (see Issuances). 
REDD+: Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation in Developing Countries. These 
Forestry and Land Use projects are developed based on the voluntary REDD+ framework, developed 
by the UNFCCC to encourage financing of forest conservation and management in lower income 
countries where forests are at risk of land-use change or reduced carbon storage.
Reduction Credits: Credits generated by projects from the volume of greenhouse gas emissions that 
were reduced or avoided through project activities. For example, a project that improves building 
weatherization and thereby reduces the burden of emissions from heating or air conditioning. 
Some nature-based carbon projects both reduce and remove (see Removal credits) greenhouse gas 
emissions, and credits from these projects are considered to include both reduction and removal 
credits.
Removal Credits: Credits generated from the volume of greenhouse gas emissions that a project 
removed from the atmosphere or ocean through the creation of a carbon sink/pool. For example, an 
afforestation/reforestation project that increases vegetation to sequester carbon.
Registration: Carbon projects must pass through a series of design validation and auditing steps, 
including potential public comment periods, before they are approved by standards and given 
registered status.
Registry: Can refer either to databases of registered projects and issued and retired credits 
maintained by standards, or to aggregations of credits meeting certain criteria, such as eligibility for 
use in a compliance carbon market.
Retirement: A credit may pass through many hands from the project’s developer, or it may be sold 
directly to its end user, who will “retire” the credit by requesting the standard to add the specific 
credit to its registry of retired credits.
Scope 3 Emissions: Greenhouse gas emissions that are indirectly caused by a company through any 
activities other than the generation of purchased energy. A major source of Scope 3 emissions is a 
company’s value chain, which includes emissions from both upstream (e.g., agricultural production) 
and downstream (e.g., use and disposal of products by consumers) supply chains. For some 
companies, such as those in consumer goods sectors that rely heavily on agricultural and forestry 
commodities, the vast majority of their carbon emissions are embedded in their value chains. 
Standards: The organizations that define the project activities that can produce carbon credits 
and publish methodologies outlining the calculation of credits generated by a project, as well as 
approving and tracking project registration and credit issuance and retirement.
Vintage: The year in which project emissions reductions or removals were determined to have 
occurred (or estimated to occur in the future). This does not have to match the year that the credits 
were issued; there can be lags between the actual reductions/removals and the issuance of credits, 
and some standards issue credits for future estimated reductions/removals.

--- PÁGINA 44 ---

State of the Voluntary Carbon Market 2025  39
Table S2. Volume of Credit Issuances (MtCO2e) by Category, 2020-2024
Note: This table includes data on credit issuances from ACR, ART, BioCarbon, CAR, CDM, Cercarbono, Global Carbon Council, 
Gold Standard, Plan Vivo, and VCS registries.Project Category 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Agriculture 1.1 4.0 9.0 6.6 3.2
Chemical Processes/ 
Industrial Manufacturing18.2 20.3 43.1 23.8 23.8
Energy Efficiency/Fuel Switching 9.5 14.5 25.1 11.8 7.9
Forestry & Land Use 75.9 140.0 146.5 124.0 86.7
Household/Community Devices 18.4 26.4 25.2 56.7 65.9
Renewable Energy 147.1 209.9 244.7 161.0 117.9
Transportation 0.2 0.1 0.03 0.4 0.2
Waste Disposal 8.5 7.9 7.8 5.8 6.0
Total 278.8 423.1 501.3 390.0 311.5Table S1. Number of Project Registrations by Category, 2020-2024
Note: This table includes data on project registrations from ACR, ART, BioCarbon, CAR, CDM, Cercarbono, Global Carbon 
Council, Gold Standard, Plan Vivo, and VCS registries.Project Category 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Agriculture 23 6 22 27 26
Chemical Processes/ 
Industrial Manufacturing23 20 86 56 69
Energy Efficiency/Fuel Switching 102 1 10 5 2
Forestry & Land Use 236 89 108 130 114
Household/Community Devices 127 118 194 329 222
Renewable Energy 988 111 151 129 158
Transportation 8 2 37 3 8
Waste Disposal 30 1 11 15 17
Total 1537 348 619 694 616Supplementary Tables

--- PÁGINA 45 ---

Pioneering Finance for Conservation
Learn more about our programs at www.forest-trends.orgPromoting the use of incentives and market-based instruments to protect  
and sustainably manage watershed servicesWater InitiativePublic-Private Finance Initiative
Creating mechanisms that increase the amount of public and private capital for  
practices that reduce emissions from forests, agriculture, and other land usesPromoting development of sound, science-based, and  
economically sustainable mitigation and no net loss of biodiversity impactsBiodiversity Initiative
Supporting the transformation toward legal and sustainable markets for  
timber and agricultural commoditiesForest Policy, Trade, and Finance InitiativeStrengthening local communities’ capacity to secure their rights, manage and  
conserve their forests, and improve their livelihoodsCommunities InitiativeDemonstrating the value of coastal and marine ecosystem servicesCoastal and Marine Initiative
A global platform for transparent information on environmental finance and  
markets, and payments for ecosystem services  Ecosystem Marketplace
Tracking corporate commitments, implementation policies, and progress  
on reducing deforestation in commodity supply chainsSupply Change