DOCUMENTO: IATA Handbook
PARTE 2 de 3
Páginas 16 a 30
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 16 ---

 
   
 
16 CORSIA  Handbook  Method A 
Method A is based on the following measurements:  
1. the fuel quantity in tanks after the completion 
of the fuel uplift for the flight under consideration;  
2. the fuel quantity in tanks after the completion of the fuel uplif t for the subsequent flight; and  
3. the fuel uplift for the subsequent flight.  
It must be underlined that the fuel quantity in tanks 
after the completion of the fuel uplift is a different 
measurement from the f uel in tanks at block -off. 
However, (only) in ca ses where no uplift takes place 
for a flight, the amount of fuel contained in the tanks at block -off should be used as an alternative to the 
fuel contained in the tanks after the uplift is complete.  
Similarly, in cases where a flight is followed by an 
activity other than a flight, such as maintenance, the 
operator may substitute the measurement of fuel in 
tanks after the uplift for the subsequent  flight with the 
amount of fuel remaining in tanks at the start of the subsequent activity or fuel in tanks at b lock- on. 
It is important to note that method A relies on data from the subsequent flight, which may be a domestic 
flight. Therefore, to prevent data gaps, it is 
recommended that operators using method A 
systematically collect all fuel measurements used in 
method A for all flights (domestic and international) 
operated by aircraft that  are used in international 
operations.  
Finally, if an operator performs one or more flights for 
another operator on an ad hoc basis, such as a short -
term  wet lease, then the nec essary data should be 
acquired from the third party. If this information is not available, the monitoring of fuel consumption shall be 
done in accordance with the block -off / block -on 
method.  
Method B  
Method B is based on the following measurements:  
1. the fuel quantity in tanks at block -on at the 
end of the preceding flight;  
2. the fuel quantity in tanks at block -on at the 
end of the flight under consideration; and  3. the fuel uplift for the flight under 
consideration.  
Similar to method A, the application of method B relies 
on data from another flight, which may be a domestic 
flight. Therefore, to prevent data gaps, it is 
recommended that operators using method B 
systematically collect fuel quantity at block -on for all 
flights (domestic and international) oper ated by 
aircraft that  are used in international operations.  
In cases where a flight is preceded by an activity other 
than a flight, such as maintenance, the operator may 
substitute the quantity of fuel at block -on at the end 
of the preceding flight with the amount of fuel 
remaining in aeroplane tanks at the end of the 
previous activity.  
Finally, if an operator performs one or more flights for 
another operator on an ad hoc basis, such as a short -
term  wet lease,  then the necessary data should be 
acquired from  the third party. If this information is not 
available,  the monitoring of fuel consumption shall be 
done in accordance with the block -off / block -on 
method described below.  
Block -off / block -on 
Block- off / block -on is based on the following 
measurements:  
1. the fuel quantity in tanks at block -off at the 
start of the flight under consideration; and  
2. the fuel quantity in tanks at block -on at the 
end of the flight is under consideration.  
Commonly, block -off is understood as a point in time 
between the last door cl osed and the first engine on, 
and block -on as a point in time between the last 
engine off and the first door open.  
In its emissions monitoring plan, the operator need s 
to define the precise point of time at which the 
measurements are made. If an operator u ses a 
definition of block -off or block -on that  is not within 
the common time windows defined above, such deviation may be approved by the administrating 
authority if it is in accordance with the operator’s 
existing practices.  

--- PÁGINA 17 ---

 
   
 
17 CORSIA  Handbook  Fuel uplift  
Fuel uplift is based on:  
1. the fuel uplift before each flight.  
Adjustments will be required to allocate fuel 
consumption between different flights when one or 
more flights are not preceded by a fuel uplift, for 
example,  in the case of fuel tankeri ng. In such cases, 
the allocation must be proportional  to the block hours 
of the different flights covered by the same uplift.  
Fuel allocation with b lock hours  
Fuel allocation with b lock- hours applies the average 
fuel burn ratio by aeroplane type to the block hours of 
each flight. For each aeroplane type used by the 
operator for international flights, i t requires the 
collection of : 
1. total fuel uplifts ; and  
2. total block hours .  
The aver age fuel burn ratio is calculated by dividing 
the sum of fuel uplifts by the total block hours. The 
operator will need to calculate the average fuel burn 
ratio for each aeroplane type at the end of each reporting year. The average fuel burn ratios will not  be 
calculated using historical  data and will only be valid 
for the reporting year in question. For example, to determine the average fuel burn ratios for 2022, an 
operator will use the fuel uplift and block hours data collected in 2022.  
If the operator ca n clearly distinguish between fuel 
uplifts for international flights and fuel uplifts for 
domestic flights, the average fuel burn ratio shall be 
calculated based on fuel uplifts and block hours for 
international flights only.   
 
     
 
18 For jet kerosene: emissions factor = 528.114 (g/mol) / 167.311 (g/mol) = 
3.1565 (rounded up to 2 decimal places = 3.1 6) Fuel density  
In instances where fuel measurements are in volume, 
the operator shall use actual and/or standard density  
in accordance with the procedures it already has in 
place for operational and safety purposes. This may 
include a combination of standard and actual dens ity, 
for example , where the operator’s procedures require 
actual density for weight -critical flights  and standard 
density for other flights. Nevertheless, in all cases 
where standard density is applied, the value used 
must be 0.8 kilograms  per liter .  
Operators are required to detail the procedures used 
to determine fuel density in the emissions monitoring 
plan. They should provide references to the relevant documentation, such as operational manuals.  
Emission factor  
Once the quantity of fuel used has been identified, the 
CO 2 emissions are calculated using an emission 
factor of 3.16 kilograms of CO 2 per kilogram of Jet -
A/A1. The same emission factor should be applied to fuels equivalent to Jet -A and Jet -A1, such as TS -1 
and No 3  Jet fuel .  
The emission factor for Jet -B and AvGas is 3.10 
kilograms of CO
2 per kilogram of fuel.  
The emission factors used under CORSIA are based 
on the average molecular weight of the fuels and their 
combustion product, rounded up to 2 decimal 
places .18   

--- PÁGINA 18 ---

 
   
 
18 CORSIA  Handbook  Data management  
As the monitoring and reporting of emissions rel ies 
on the collection and handling of large sets of data, a 
key aspect of MRV is the procedures an operator has 
in place to manage data.  
In their emissions monitoring plans, operators must 
provide information on the roles, responsibilities,  and 
procedures for data management. They need to describe each step in the management of data, 
including sources of data, systems used to store and process data, as well as the controls in place to 
ensure the quality of data processing and integrity of 
the data itself.  
Operators also need to assess the risks associated 
with the management of data and the measures they 
implement to mitigate those risks. The risks may be 
associated with potential deficie ncies in the systems 
used to collect data, but they may also be related to 
the storage of records.  
Operators must have in place a plan for record 
keeping. It is required  that operator s keep relevant 
records to demonstrate  compliance with the 
requirements of CORSIA for a period of 10 years.
19 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
19 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 1.4.1.  Material changes 
An operator is  required to resubmit its emissions 
monitoring plan if there are any significant changes to 
the information it contains (“material changes”).20  
Material changes include changes that would affect 
the status or eligibility of the aeroplane operator for 
an o ption under the emissions monitoring 
requirements or that would otherwise affect the 
decision by the state to which the aeroplane operator 
is attributed with regard to whether the aeroplane operator’s approach to monitoring conforms with the 
requirements o f Annex 16, vol. IV.  
Changes to the information that affects the 
administration or identification of an operator (for 
example , the ICAO Designator), changes that affect 
the eligibility to use simplified monitoring, changes to methodologies to monitor fuel use or determine fuel 
density, and changes to data management processes 
are examples of material changes.  
In contrast, for example, changes in ownership structure that do not affect the accountable entity or 
changes to the conta ct information, list of 
aeroplanes , or state pairs  provided in the emissions 
monitoring plan are not material and do not require the submission and approval of an amended 
emissions monitoring plan. Such changes should , 
however,  be notified to the administr ating authority in 
the annual Emissions Report.
20 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.2.2.3.  

--- PÁGINA 19 ---

 
   
 
19 CORSIA  Handbook  Reporting  
After each reporting year's end, operators must  
compile the fuel and emissions data collected in an 
annual emissions report. Annual reports may also 
include information on CORSIA -eligible fuels if t hey 
intend to claim emissions reductions from the use of CORSIA -eligible  fuels.  
The emissions reports need to be verified by a verification body prior to their submission to the administrating authority.  
The deadline for the following emissions reports will 
be 30 April (for example, 30 April 2022 for the 2021 
emissions report).
21 
CO 2 emissions 
Data requirements 
Operators must report the consolidated CO2 
emissions data collected during a given reporting 
year to their administrating authority in their 
emissions reports.  
By default, emissions data need to be reported by state -pair, but a n administrating authority can 
request that the data be reported to them by aerodrome -pair.
22 
Inbound and outbound flights must be treated as distinct pairs (for example, flights that depart from A 
and land in B are to be reported separately from 
flights t hat depart in B and land in A).  
Information that  has to  be included in the emissions 
report includes operator identification, information on 
the reporting cycle, reference to the most recently approved emissions monitoring plan, fleet and fuel 
information, and data gaps.
23 
In cases where several operators repo rt jointly, the 
emissions data relating to each subsidiary has to be 
provided as appendices to the main emissions report.  
Data gaps  
Data gaps occur when an operator is missing data 
relevant to the determination of the fuel use of a flight 
in accordance with the approved fuel monitoring 
method. Gaps in emissions -related data can occur 
due to various reasons, including irregular operations, 
data feed issues,  or critical system failures.  
In cases where the operator can use a secondary data 
source to determine fuel use in accordance with the approved fuel monitoring method, this would not 
constitute a data gap. For example, if an operator typically uses  ACARS data and, due to a problem, is 
missing data for a flight, it may be able to source 
actual fuel data from fuel invoices or technical logs 
(the secondary sources).  
If no primary or secondary data is available and the 
approved fuel monitoring methodology cannot be 
applied, then a data gap occurs , and the operator will 
have to use the CERT to fill the data gap.  
It should be noted that data gaps may not affect more than 5% of  all international flights in the 2019 -2020 
period , and more than 5% of international flights 
subj ect to offsetting requirements in 2021 -2035. The 
5% thresholds are assessed based on the number of 
flights, not in relation to fuel use or CO
2 emissions. If 
these thresholds are exceeded, the operator is  
required to take remedial action in consultation wit h 
its administrating authority.24
 
  
 
21 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 1.  
22 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.3.1.2.  23 Ann ex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 5.   
24 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.5.1.1.  

--- PÁGINA 20 ---

 
   
 
20 CORSIA  Handbook  CORSIA eligible fuels  
Operators are entitled to claim emissions reductions 
from fuels that  meet defined sustainability criteria and 
are certified by an approved certification scheme. 
These “CORSIA eligible fuels”  (CEF) include 
“sustainable aviation fuels ,” which are renewable or 
waste -derived fuels, as well as “lower carbon aviation 
fuels,”  which are fossil -based fuels.25 
To meet CORSIA’s sustainability criteria, a specific CORSIA eligible fuel needs to achieve net greenhouse gas emission reductions of at least 10% compared to 
conventional jet fuel on a life cycle basis. 
Furthermore, a CORSIA -eligible  fuel must not be 
made from biomass obtained from land with high 
carbon stock.
26 Additional sustainability criteria 
applicable for CORSIA Sustainable Aviation Fuel and 
CORSIA lower carbon aviation fu el by a certified fuel 
producer on or after 1 Janua ry 2024 were adopted by 
the ICAO Council . 27 
The accounting of CORSIA -eligible  fuels is based on 
purchasing and blending records, excluding fuels 
sold to a third party or claimed under other 
greenhouse gas emissions schemes. CORSIA eligible fuels used on domestic flights may be claimed under 
CORSIA, provided they are not claimed under any 
other greenhouse gas emissions schemes.
28  
According to purchasing and blending records, 
claims of emissions reductions by an operator from 
using CEFs are based on the mass of CEFs.  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
25 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part I I, Chapter 1.  
26 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.2.4.  
27 ICAO Document CORSIA Sustainab ility Criteria for CORSIA Eligible Fuels 
(November 2022)  CORSIA -eligible  fuels should be reported during the 
same complianc e period as when the blending 
occurs. It is recommended that operators make 
CORSIA -eligible  fuel claims on an annual basis, but 
operators may decide when to make a claim within a 
given compliance period .29 For example, if a batch of 
CORSIA eligible fuel is  blended in 202 4, it is 
recommended that the batch be included in the 202 4 
emissions report. Nevertheless, the operator may 
instead decide to report it with its 202 5 or 2026  
emissions. However, in all cases, the associated 
emissions reductions can only be claimed in relation 
to offsetting requirements for the 202 4-2026  
compliance cycle.  
In addition to detailed information on the CORSIA 
eligible fuels claimed, operators need to provide a list 
of all other greenhouse gas schemes that they 
participate in. Only schemes where emission 
reductions from CORSIA eligible fuels may be claimed 
need to be included in that list. They also need to 
include a declaration that they have not ma de claims 
for the same batches of CORSIA eligible fuel under 
any other schemes.30 
The emissions reductions that an operator can claim from CORSIA -eligible  fuels are proportional to the life 
cycle emissions benefits of the fuels used, compared 
to a baseline life cycle emissions value of 89 
gCO
2e/MJ for jet fuel. Life cycle emissions include 
emissions from the full supply chain of production 
and use (“core LCA”) and em issions from induced 
land -use change (“ILUC”). The emissions reductions 
will be deducted from the operator’s total offsetting requirements at the end of each 3 -year compliance 
period.
31 
28 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.2.4, note 1.  
29 Annex 16, vol.  IV, Part II, 2.3.3.4  
30 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.3.3.  
31 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 3. 4. 

--- PÁGINA 21 ---

 
   
 
21 CORSIA  Handbook  Publication  of data  
Requirements  
Some of  the data reported to states will be disclosed 
to the public, after aggregation. The information that  
ICAO will publish  includes:  
• the annual CO 2 emissions on each state- pair, 
aggregated for all operators.  
It will also include, for each operator:  
• the total annual CO 2 emissions;  
• the total annual CO 2 emissions for state -pairs 
subject to offsetting requirements; and  
• the total annual CO 2 emissions for  state -pairs 
not subject to offsetting requirements.  
The information will be made available through the 
CORSIA Central Registry  (CCR) . 
Where an operator is concerned that the publication 
of its data, including after aggregation, could result in 
the disclo sure of commercially sensitive information, 
it can submit a written and justified request to its 
national authority that the related data be treated as 
confidential and not be disclosed to the public32.  
Commercially sensitive information  
Fuel is the most important cost item for commercial 
operators. Therefore, CO 2 emissions data, which is 
derived directly from fuel use, provides a very good 
indication of an operator’s main cost item, even if the 
price paid for its fuel remains undisclosed.  
Airline competit ion on some routes is fierce,  with 
operators competing to keep and gain market share. 
In such an environment, having the lowest fuel 
consumption – or even a relatively low level –  is a key 
advantage to sustain the competition. As a corollary, 
intelligence on a competitor’s fuel use on a specific 
route can be used to inform pricing and other 
commercial strategies, aiming to reduce a 
competitor's market shares .  
 
 
 
32 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.3.1.6 and 2.3.1.6.  Therefore, annual CO 2 emissions of an operator on a 
state -pair are considered commercially sensitive if 
they are determined based on actual fuel use.  
This is why Annex 16, Volume IV only foresees the 
disclosure of aggregated data. However, it also 
identifies several  situations  where aggregated data 
may enable the determination of commercially 
sensitive state- pair information.  
• An operator operates very few international 
state -pairs (for example , Operator A in the 
table below)  
• An operator operates very few state- pairs 
subject to  offsetting requirements or very 
few state -pairs not subject to offsetting 
requirements (for example,  Operator B in the 
table below)  
• An operator operates a state- pair that no or 
very few other operators fly (for example , 
Operator C in the table below) .33 
It is important to note that commercially sensitive 
data will not automatically be treated as confidential. 
The operators concerned will need to submit a written 
and justified request to their national authority that 
the related data be treated as confidential and not be 
disclosed to the public. If the national authority 
approves the operator’s request, it should ensure that 
the data is identified as confidential when it reports 
the data to ICAO to prevent its publication by ICAO. 
When evaluating whether the level of aggregation 
would be sufficient to prevent the disclosure of 
commercially sensitive data, potential corporate 
relationships between operators should be 
considered . 
 
 
 
 
  
 
33 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.3.1.6 and  2.3.1.7.  

--- PÁGINA 22 ---

 
22 An Airline Handbook on CORSIA   
Operator  State -pairs 
operated  Data published  
Total CO 2 CO 2 for all flights 
subject to 
offsetting 
requirements  CO 2 for all flights 
not subject to 
offsetting 
requirements  
A A <-> B A <-> B A <-> B n/a 
B A <-> B 
A <-> C 
A <-> D 
A <-> E A <-> B 
A <-> C 
A <-> D 
A <-> E A <-> B 
A <-> C 
A <-> D 
 A <->E 
C A <-> B 
A <-> C 
A <-> D 
A <-> E 
A <-> F A <-> B 
A <-> C 
A <-> D 
A <-> E 
A <-> F A <-> B 
A <-> C 
A <-> D 
 A <-> E 
A <-> F 
In this example, all  three  operators are administered by State A. There are no other operators 
administered by State A.  
All state -pairs are subject to offsetting requirements, except A< - >E and A <- > F.  
Operator C is the only operator flying between State A and State F.  
  

--- PÁGINA 23 ---

 
   
 
23 CORSIA  Handbook  Verification 
An external and independent body must verify annual 
emissions reports before being submitted to the 
administrating  authority. This also applies to 
emissions reports of operators who  are eligible to use 
the CERT for simplified monitoring.34 
Verification requirements also apply to the reports that operators need to submit on the emissions units 
canceled  to meet offsetti ng requirements. The 
verification of the emissions units cancellation report 
(EUCR)  is covered separately in the next chapter.  
Internal pre- verification  
While it is not a mandatory requirement, it is 
recommende d that operators prepare for the third -
party v erification process by selecting an internal 
auditor to review the draft emissions report to check the data, processes,  and resulting output. This will 
allow the operator to identify potential irregularities 
and take corrective actions before  third -party 
involvement.  
The internal auditor will, for example, check if the 
responsibilities assigned to various staff have been 
completed, how data compares to previous years, whether it is complete,  and if measurements have 
been taken in accordance with the agreed procedures.  
 
Before engaging a verification body, the operator is 
recommended to confirm the verification body’s 
accreditation status , which can be found in ICAO’s 
document titled  “CORSIA Central Registry (CCR): 
Information and Data for Transparency .” 
Furthermore, the type  of engagement between the 
operator and the verification body shall be 
verification. The “agreed -upon procedure” 
engagement type is not applicable to CORSIA .
35 
 
 
34 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.4.  35 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3.1.  

--- PÁGINA 24 ---

 
    
24 CORSIA  Handbook  Third -party verification  
Scope  
The verification of the emissions report shall cover an 
operator’s CO 2 emissions from international flights 
and any CORSIA -eligible fuel claims during the 
reporting period in question.36  
The CO 2 emissions within the scope of the verification 
all fall within the scope of CORSIA’s monitoring and 
reporting requirements, irrespective of whether they are subject to offsetting requirements.  
This implies that while the verifier need s to ensure 
that all international flights subject to monitoring requirements have been included, the emissions from 
domestic flights, state flights, humanitarian flights, firefighting flights, or flights with aeroplanes with an 
MTOM below 5,700 kg are not to be verified.  
Objective  
The verification body must check if the emissions 
reported are accurate and supported by sufficient 
evidence.  
One of the main tasks of the verification body is to 
ensure that the monitoring  of CO 2 emissions has 
been undertaken in accordance with the emissions 
monitoring plan. The verification body will, for example, check if the fuel use was calculated in line 
with the selected methodology, if fuel density was determined in accordance with the procedures 
detailed in the emissions monitoring plan, etc.  
The verification body must  also check that the stated 
amount of CORSIA -eligible  fuels is accurate and that 
the claimed batches have not been claimed under any 
other voluntary or mandatory schemes in which the 
operator has participated .  
If the report's accuracy is satisfactory, the verification body issues a written declaration confi rming that the 
CO
2 emissions statement  is within the defined level of 
assurance and materiality. In cases where the verification body may find misstatements and other 
 
36 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 4.  
37 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 33.  irregularities in the emissions report, the operator need s to take corrective actions.  
In accordance with Annex 16, volume IV, the 
objectives of the verification of an emissions report 
are37: 
• The emissions statement  is materially fair and an 
accurate representation of emissions and is supported by sufficient and appropriate evidence;  
• Emission s have been monitored, quantified , and 
reported over the period of the emissions report 
in accordance with the applicable standards and 
the approved emissions monitoring plan;  
• The correct method of flight attribution has been applied ; 
• The stated amount of emissions reductions from 
the use of CORSIA -eligible  fuels is materially fair 
and an accurate representation of emissions reductions over the reporting period and is supported by sufficient and appropriate internal 
and external evidence;  
• The claimed batches of CORSIA -eligible  fuels 
have not been claimed under any other schemes it has participated in;  
• Emissions reductions associated with the use of CORSIA -eligible fuels have been monitored, 
quantified,  and reported over the period of the 
emissions report in accordance with the applicable standards .
38 
38 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3.2.  

--- PÁGINA 25 ---

 
   
 
25 CORSIA  Handbook  Requirements  
Level of assurance 
The objective of the verification process is to allow 
the verifier to i ssue a verification opinion  on whether 
the emissions report is without material discrepancy.  
An absolute level of assurance is neither attainable 
nor required for CORSIA. For CORSIA, a “reasonable 
level of assurance”39 is required, which means the 
verifier must be able to conclude that the emissions 
report is materially correct and a fair representation 
of the operator’s emissions and information and that 
the emissions report is prepared in accordance with 
the applicable regulatory requirements.40  
The level of assurance required influences  the 
approach taken by the verifier. For example, to attain 
a reasonable level of assurance, the verifier need s to 
test the CO 2 data and information in the report. It isn’t  
sufficient for the verifier to simply conclude that there is no evidence of material errors or inconsistencies 
with regulatory requirements.  
Materiality  
The concept of materiality is used to identify 
information that, if omitted or misstated, would 
significantly misrepresent the operator’s emissions 
assertion.  
A margin of uncertainty in the emissions report is 
tolerated (“materiality threshold”), but it may not 
exceed 2% of total emissions for operators with 
annual CO 2 emissions greater than 500,000 tonnes 
from international flights . The materiality threshold for 
operators with annual CO 2 emissions from 
international flights equal to or less than 500,000 
tonnes is 5% .41  
The materiality threshold is assessed based on the 
discrepancy between (total) emissions declared by the operator and the verification body’s estimation of 
the total amount of emissions. Overstatements and 
understatements in the operator’s emissions report 
are allowed to balance out.  
 
39 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. and ISO 14064- 3:2019 section 5. 1.3 
40 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 2. 
41 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 5. However, m ateriality is not only assessed 
quantitatively , but also on a qualitative basis. Non -
conformities or misstatements that may not lead to 
the materiality threshold being exceeded could 
influence the verification body’s conclusions. This 
may be the case of sy stematic underestimations of 
emissions or an operator not applying the procedures 
approved in its emissions monitoring plan.   
Verification process  
Verification plan  
The verification  body shall prepare a verification plan 
describing the responsibilities and activities for each 
variable that may potentially impact  the reported 
emissi ons.42 
The verification plan shall be elaborated based on a 
strategic analysis of the scope and complexi ty of the 
operator’s activities. The scope43 and complexity 
depend on variables such as the type and size of 
operations, whether the operators have parent 
companies, whether the administrating authority has 
imposed specific conditions, etc.  
On the basis of  the strategic analysis, the verification 
body identif ies and quanti fies risks  inherent to the 
activity (for example, errors in the data collection 
process) and risk s that control activities (such as data 
validation processes) would not detect errors and discrepancies. The verification body must also assess the risk that discrepancies may not be 
detected in the verification process.  The risk analysis 
is informed not o nly by the complexity of the 
operator’s activities but also by the maturity and 
robustness of the control and data flow activities the operator implements.  
42 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 8. 
43 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3.4.  

--- PÁGINA 26 ---

 
   
 
26 CORSIA  Handbook  Verification activities  
During the verification process , the verificat ion body 
review s the operator’s information systems and 
controls to ensure that the control activities that  were 
identified in the emissions monitoring plan are 
effectively implemented. This includes the 
procedures to track changes in the fleet and ensure 
the completeness of all flights, the procedures to 
determine which flights are exempt from monitoring 
or offsetting requirements, and the p rocesses to 
validate data and identify erroneous values. If data 
flow activities are outsourced, the verification bod y 
will assess if controls are in place to ensure the quality 
of the outsourced activities.  
The verification activities naturally also include an 
assessment of the emissions data. The assessment 
should include evidence -gathering to compare the 
data used to prepare the report with primary and 
secondary data sources, such as flight plans, flight 
logs,  and fuel invoices.44 Data sources also include 
external reference data such as ATC data and invoices, fleet databases,  or timetables.  
The verif ication body should , however,  not only rely 
on sampling but also  apply analytical procedures to 
check full datasets. Such checks can be based on 
indicators such as the average fuel burn of flights or 
maximum tank capacity  to identify data that  may be 
erron eous.  
The verification body also need s to ensure that the 
operator has complied with the requirements of Annex 16, volume IV (as implemented in the 
operator’s state) and the approved emissions 
monitoring plan. The verification body must , among 
other s, check that the fuel use monitoring methods 
have been implemented correctly  and, for example, 
that the appropriate measurement  points have been 
used.
45 
If the operator includes a claim for CORSIA eligible fuels, the verification body need s to confirm that the 
sustainability documentation is reliable and from an approved Sustainability Certification Scheme. The 
verification process should also ensure that the 
reported batch volumes, mass, and life cycle 
emissions align with the supporting do cumentation 
and that the CORSIA -eligible fuels have not been sold 
to a third party or claimed under another scheme. The 
 
44 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 9. 
45 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 6. purchase agreements, delivery documentation, sustainability certificate, and  declarations made by 
the operator in other schemes allow to  cross -check 
the information.
46  
During its activities, the verification team  should 
conduct  site visits to interview staff and check the 
practical application of the procedures , if the risk 
assessment and evidence- gathering plan requires 
such a visit to reduce the verification risk.    
Verification report  
The verification team shall submit a copy of the verification report to the operator  and,  upo n their 
authorization, forward a copy of the report , together 
with the emissions report, the emissions unit can cellation report, or both, to the administrating 
authority of the respective state. The verification 
team shall choose between two verification opinion 
statements: “verified as satisfactory” or “verified as 
unsatisfactory .” If the  verification body finds any 
misstatements (erroneous or missing data) or non-
conformities ( incorrect application of requirements), 
it will contact the operator to identify potential 
corrective actions.  The information the operator 
provides  to correct  misstatements and non -
conformi ties should be verifiable.  If no corrective 
action can be taken, the misstatements and non -
conformities are included in the verification report 
and considered  in the materiality assessment.  
If the verification body is satisfied that the emissions report contains no misstatements or non -
conformities , the emissions report is  “verified as 
satisfactory .”  
If the emissions report contains misstatements or 
non -conformities, the verification body may still 
conclude that the report is satisfactory if the 
misstatements or non -conformities are not material. 
In such a case, the verification opinion  is that the 
emissions report is “verified as satisfactory with 
comments.” 
If the emissions report contains material 
misstatements or non- conformities, it is  “verifi ed as 
non -satisfactory .” 
46 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3.4.2.  

--- PÁGINA 27 ---

 
    
27 CORSIA  Handbook  Verification body  
A key principle of the verification process is that it 
should be undertaken by a body that is independent 
of the activity being verified  and free from bias and 
conflict of interest.  
To minimize impartiality , if the leader of the 
verification team undertakes six annual verifications 
for CORSIA or any other greenhouse gas verification 
for one operator, then the leader of the verification team shall take a break of three consecutive year s 
from providing verification services to that same 
operator.
47 
Furthermore, operators can only engage verification 
bodies accredited by a National Accreditation Body (NAB) to ISO 14065:2020 and additional CORSIA -
specific requirements. An operator may enga ge a 
verification body accredited by a national 
accreditation body from another state.
48 
In addition to the ISO standards, the verification body has to satisfy several  personnel and team 
competency requirements. The verification team 
must , for example, dem onstrate knowledge of 
general technical processes in the field of civil aviation, aviation fuels , and related processes, fuel 
use monitoring and measurement devices and 
procedures, data management systems and controls, etc.  
Engaging a verifier  
The operator  should exercise due diligence to ensure  
the verification body is accredited for CORSIA49 and 
has the required personnel competency and expertise.  
When the operator engages a verifier, it should 
ensure that the contractual basis specifies the 
conditions f or the verification.  
 
 
 
 
47 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 2.2.   
48 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.4.2.  Annex 16, volume IV, provides that the following should be 
specified in the contract: 
• Scope of verification, verification objectives, level 
of assurance, materiality threshold , and relevant 
verification standards  – ISO/IEC 17 029, ISO 
14065; ISO 14064 -3; Annex 16, vol. IV; the 
Environment Technical Manual  (Doc 9501) , vol. IV  
– Procedures for demonstrating compliance with 
the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for 
International Aviation (CORSIA) ; 
• Flexibility to change time allocation if this proves 
necessary because of findings during the 
verification;  
• Requirement of the aeroplane operator to accept 
the audit as a potential witness audit by national 
accreditation body’s assessors, potentially accom panied  by peer review assessors or other 
observers; 
• Requirement of the aeroplane operator to authorize the release of the emissions report, the 
emission unit cancellation report, where 
applicable, and the verification report by the verification body to the  state;  
• Requirements of the verification body to communicate any suspected intentional misstatement or noncompliance by the operator 
to the State as soon as practicable (ISO 14064 -
3:2019 section 5.4.3) ; and  
• Liability coverage.
50 
To perform verification ac tivities, the operator need s 
to provide access to all relevant documents and data 
sources to the verification body. The operator and the 
verification body should identify the data sources and 
access needs before the verification exercise. Given 
the confidential nature of the information the 
verification body has access to, the operator and the 
verification body should include appropriate confidentiality clauses in their contract.  
In addition, the operator and the verifier may wish to 
include clauses on fees, dispute settlement, and force 
majeure situations.   
49 The latest list of verification bodies accredited in States can be found in 
ICAO CORSIA Central Registry (CCR)  
50 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 2. 9.  

--- PÁGINA 28 ---

 
   
 
28 CORSIA  Handbook  State review  
The administrating authority perform s an order of 
magnitude check of the verified emissions reports 
submitted by operators.51 
The administrating authority does not need to review 
the emissions reports in detail but should perform 
checks to ensure that the information in the report is 
plausible and complete.  
The administrating authority should, for example, 
check if the information on the operator and its fleet 
is accurate. It should ma ke sure that the proper 
template has been used for the emissions report, that 
the emissions report was verified and by a verification 
body accredited for CORSIA, that the approved fuel 
monitoring method was used , that the reported CO 2 
emissions and number of flights are roughly plausible , 
etc.  
The administrating authority may , for example,  
estimate the typical fuel consumption for a flight using the CERT and compare it with the data reported 
by the operator. The order of magnitude review will 
also ensure that the data has been aggregated at the 
right level and that state pairs  have appropriately  
been classified as subject or not subject to offsetting 
requirements. The administrating authority will also 
consider whether any data gaps existed during the 
report ing year and whether potential comments from 
the verification body have been considered . 
  
 
51 Annex 16, vol. IV, 2.4.1. 6. 

--- PÁGINA 29 ---

 
   
 
29 CORSIA  Handbook  Offsetting  
Phased implementation  
In order to address the concerns of developing states 
and to take into ac count the special circumstances 
and respective capabilities of states, CORSIA will be 
implemented in phases.  
The phased implementation, however, only relates to 
offsetting requirements. All operators that  emit more 
than 10,000 tCO 2 per year on international flights 
have to monitor and report emissions for all 
international flights since 1 January 2019, including 
flights to and from exempted states.52 
Pilot phase  (2021-2023) 
and first phase  (2024-
2026)  
From 2021 until 2026, offsetting requirements will 
only apply to international flight s between states that 
volunteer to participate in the pilot and/or the first 
phases (states A, E, and D in this ex ample).53  
Any operator flying between volunteering states ( ⬌ 
blue lines) will be subject to offsetting requirements, even if the operator is based in a state that  has not 
volunteered.  All other international flights to and from 
states that have not volunteered ( B, F, and C) will be 
exempt from offsetting requirements (
⬌ grey lines) .  
 
52 Annex 16, volume IV, Part II, 2.1.1.  
53 Annex 16, volume IV, Part II, 3.1.3.  
54 Annex 16, volume IV, Part II, 3.1.3. T he Second phase applies to all flights 
between States that have an individual share of international aviation 
activities in RTKs in 2018 above 0.5 percent  of total RTKs or whose However, the CO 2 emissions from all international 
flights, including flights exempt from offsetting requirements, will have to be monitored, reported , 
and verified  annua lly.
 
Second phase  (2027-
2035)  
From 2027, offsetting requirements will apply to all 
international flights (including those that did not 
volunteer to be part of the first phases: B  and F), 
except  flights to or from states that meet one of the 
two following criteria ( C): 
• Least Developed Countries, Small I sland 
Developing States, and Landlocked 
Developing Countries; or 
• States that represent a small share of 
international aviation activities (in RTKs ): 
these include t he States that account for less 
than 0.5% of total RTKs from international aviation in 2018.
54 
Voluntary participation  
Exempted states can decide to join the scheme at the beginning of any year. The only requirement is to  
communicate their decision to ICAO according to the 
timeline detailed in  Annex 16, volume IV, Appendix 1 .  
States who decide to participate in CORSIA on a voluntary basis may discontinue their voluntary 
participation in the scheme from 1 January of any 
cumulative share in the list of States from the highest to the lowest amount 
of RTKs reaches 90 percent  of total RTKs, except LDCs, SIDS and LL DCs 
unless they volunteer to participate in this phase. The RTK taken into 
account will be the aggregated RTK from international flights by all 
operators registered in the State in question.  


--- PÁGINA 30 ---

 
    
30 CORSIA  Handbook  given year, provided they inform ICAO no later than 30 
June of the preceding year.  
Calculation of offsetting 
requirements  
Principles  
The calculation of offsetting requirements will evolve 
from a “sectoral” approach to a combination of a 
“sectoral” componen t and an “individual” component.  
The sectoral component is based on the total CO 2 
emissions of each operator. Each operator will have to offset a given percentage of its CO
2 emissions 
from flights subject to offsetting requirements. This 
percentage, the sector’s “growth factor,” will be 
identical for all operators and determined based on the aggregated emissions from all operators. It will be calculated by dividing the total increase in CO
2 
emissions over a baseline  for the given year,  by the 
total CO 2 emissions on state- pairs subject to 
offsetting requirements in the given year.  
In contrast, the individual component is based solely 
on the increase in CO 2 emissions of each operator.  
All CO 2 emissions from flights exempt from CORSIA 
or not subject to offse tting requirements, as a result 
of the phased implementation or technical 
exemptions, are excluded from the calculation of offsetting requirements.  
The weighting between the sectoral and individual components will evolve over time as follows  
(according to A41 -22): 
 PILOT 
PHASE  FIRST 
PHASE  SECOND PHASE  
 2021 -
2023  2024 -
2026  2027 -
2029  2030 -
2032  2033 -
2035  
SECTORAL  100%  100%  100%  100%  85%  
INDIVIDUAL  0% 0% 0% 0% 15%  
  
 
55 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 3.2.  Calculation of an operator’s 
sectoral component  
The sectoral component is obtained by multiplying 
the operator’s total CO 2 emissions covered by 
CORSIA  (Chapter 3 emissions)  with  the “sector’s 
growth factor”  (SGF), both  for the year of 
consideration .  
The sector’s growth factor is obtained by dividing the aggregated increase in total CO
2 emissions above the 
baseline from all operators  for the given year  by the 
total CO 2 emissions from international civil aviation in 
the given year. Only the emissions from state- pairs 
subject to offsetting requirements are considered in 
determining the sector’s growth factor.55 
For example, if the total CO 2 emitted (by all operators) 
on state -pairs subject to offsetting requirements  
(Chapter 3 emissions)  in 2030 is 750 million tonnes of 
CO 2 and the baseline for 2030 (85% of 2019 
emissions on the same state -pairs as those 
applicable in 2030)  are 500 million tonnes of CO 2, the 
sector’s growth factor in 2030 would be:  
(750– 500) ÷ 750 = 33.3%  
If an individual operator emits 150,000 tonnes of CO 2 
in 2030, the sectoral component  of its offsetting 
requirements would , therefore, be: 
150,000 × 33.3% = 50,000 tonnes of CO 2 