DOCUMENTO: IATA Handbook
PARTE 3 de 3
Páginas 31 a 38
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 31 ---

 
    
31 CORSIA  Handbook  Calculation of an operator’s 
individual component  
The individual component is effectively the difference 
betw een an operator’s CO 2 emissions in a given 
compliance year and its baseline emissions for that 
year56 (calculated as 85% of the annual CO 2 of the 
operator  in 2019, within CORSIA scope considering 
the participating states for that year) .  
For example, if the CO 2 emitted by an operator on 
state pairs  subject to offsetting requirements in 2030 
is 1.2 million tonnes of CO 2 and the operator’s  
baseline emissions for the same state pairs  are 
800,000 tonnes of CO 2, the operator’s individual 
component  would be 400,000 tonnes of CO 2 for 
2030:  
1,200,000 – 800,000 = 400,000 tonnes of CO 2 Calculation of an operator’s offsetting requirements  
Once an operator’s sectoral and individual 
components are known, they should be multiplied by 
the applicable weightings.  
In compliance years where the approach is 100% 
sectoral, an operator’s offsetting requirement will be 
its sectoral component. In compliance years where 
offsetting requirements are a combination of the individual and sectoral components (from 2033 to 
2035) , the components should be multiplied by the 
respective weightings.  
For example,  in 2033, when the weighting is 15% 
individual and 8 5% sectoral, an operator’s offsetting 
requirements will be:  
0.15 × individual component  + 0.85 × sectoral  
component  = CO
2 to offset  in 2033  
The table below provides illustrative values:
 
     
Illustration of calculation of offsetting 
requirements for an operator  Baseline for a 
given year   2025  2030  2035  
Total emissions  tCO 2, in 
thousands   650  710  790  
Total emissions from 
state- pairs subject to 
offsetting 
requirements in:  2025  tCO 2, in 
thousands  380  400    
2030  tCO 2, in 
thousands  430   500   
2035  tCO 2, in 
thousands  430    550  
Sector’s growth factor   N/A  20%  30%  40%  
Sectoral component  tCO 2, in 
thousands  N/A  400 x 20% =  
80 500 x 30% =  
150  550 x 40% =  
220  
Individual component  tCO 2, in 
thousands  N/A  Not applicable  Not applicable  550 -430 = 120  
Offsetting requirements  tCO 2, in 
thousands  N/A  100% x 80 =  
80 100% x 150 =  
150  85% x 220 + 
15% x 120 =  
205  
  
 
56 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 3.2.4.  

--- PÁGINA 32 ---

 
    
32 CORSIA  Handbook  Offsetting requirements  
Compliance cycle  
While the reporting of emissions will take place on an 
annual basis, offsetting requirements will be 
aggregated by 3 -year compliance cycles. For every 
compliance cycle, operators will need to offset and 
cancel a quantity of eligible emissions units corresponding to their offsetting requirements.  
Administrating authorities will notify operators of their 
final offsetting requirements for each year  by 30 
November of the following year .
57 For example, by 30 
November 2027, the states shall calculate and inform operators  that are attributed to them  of their 
offsetting requirements for 2026.  
The offsetting requirements of an operator will be 
determined by its administrating authority. The final 
offsetting requirements will however benefit from a reduction if an operator has used CORSIA eligible 
fuels that meet the applicable sustainability criteria. 
When an emissions unit is canceled , it is taken out of 
circulation and becomes unavailable for any other 
uses. It is only if an emissions unit is canceled  for the 
purpose of compliance with CORSIA that it can be 
used to comply with offsetting requirements.  The deadline to complete the cancellation of the 
required number of units will be 31 January, following 
the administrating authority's notification of the final 
offsetting requirements. However, if the administrating authority were to notify the final 
offsetting requirements later than 30 November, the 
operator would  have 60 days to complete the 
cancellation. Naturally, operators do not have to wait 
until they are notified of their final offsetting 
requirements to purchase and cancel emissions units 
and may do so before.
58 
Information on the emissions units canceled will need 
to be compiled in an “emissions unit cancellation report” and submitted to the administrating authority  
after verification.  
In the CORSIA Central Registry, ICAO will publish the 
following information , aggregated at the state and 
global level
59: 
• Total final offsetting requirements over each compliance period;  
• Total quantity of emissions units canceled  
over the compliance period; and 
• Consolidated information on the canceled  
emissions units (eligible emissions unit program, unit type, host country, 
methodology, and program -designated  
registry name).  
Compliance cycle  Notification of final 
offsetting requirem ents  Cancellation of 
emissions units  Submission of verified 
emissions unit 
cancellation report  
2021 -2023  By 30 November 2024  By 31 January 2025*  By 30 April 2025  
2024 -2026  By 30 November 2027  By 31 January 2028*  By 30 April 2028  
2027 -2029  By 30 November 2030  By 31 January 2031*  By 30 April 2031  
2030 -2032  By 30 November 2033  By 31 January 2034*  By 30 April 2034  
2033 -2035  By 30 November 2036  By 31 January 2037*  By 30 April 2037  
* or, if the notification of final offsetting requirements occurs after 30 November, 60 days after the notification of the final 
offsetting requirements.  
 
57 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 1.  
58 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 1.  
59 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 5.  

--- PÁGINA 33 ---

 
   
 
33 CORSIA  Handbook  New entrants  
A “new entrant” is an operator that commences 
operating international flights f alling within the scope 
of CORSIA on or after  1 January  2019 and  whose 
operations are not in whole or in part a continuation of operations previously performed by another operator.  
To be considered a “new entrant ,” the operations 
must not be, even partially, a continuation of the 
operations of another operator. For example, if an 
airline creates a new AOC for its regional flights and 
splits its network between the parent company and 
the new AOC, the new AOC would not be considered 
as a new entrant. Similarly, if an airline operating 
domestic flights only takes over the international 
flights of another airline it has merged with, this would 
likely not be a situation of a “new entrant .” 
New entrants are exempt from offsetting 
requirements for three years from th e year their total 
annual emissions within CORSIA’s scope exceed  
10,000 tonnes .
60 The 3 -year “grace” period includes 
the year during which they exceed this ceiling .61 For 
example, if an operator produces more than 10,000 
tonnes within CO RSIA’s scope in 2024, it will be 
exempt from offsetting requirements in 2024, 2025 , 
and 2026. It will be subject to offsetting requirements 
for its 2027 emissions onwards.  
As a caveat, at  any time during the “grace period ,” if 
the operator’s total annual CO2 emissions exceed  
0.1% of the total CO 2 emissions from international 
flights in 2019 , the operator will be subject to 
offsetting requirements from the following calendar  
year.  
CORSIA eligible fuels 
The emis sions reductions that an operator can claim 
from CORSIA -eligible  fuels will be proportional to the 
life cycle emissions benefits of the fuels used, 
compared to a reference value for fossi l fuels62 (for 
Jet-A/A1, Jet -B, TS- 1, or No. 3 Jet fuel , 89 gCO 2e/MJ ; 
for AvGas, 95 gCO 2e/MJ ). 
 
60 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.1.1.  
61 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 3.1.2.  
62 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 3.3.  For example, if an operator used 1,000 tonnes of 
sustainable aviation fuels with a life cycle emissions 
value of 20 gCO 2e/MJ, the corresponding emissions 
reduction would be:  
Emissions reduction = 3.16*1000*(1- 20/89)  
where 3.16 (kg CO 2/kg fuel) is the emissions factor for 
jet fuel and 89 (gCO 2e/MJ), the default life cycle 
emissions value for conventional aviation fuel.  
ICAO will publish default life cycle values for some 
CORSIA eligible fuels . An op erator may, however, 
decide to use the actual life cycle emissions if a fuel 
producer can demonstrate lower lifecycle emissions 
than the default value or if a fuel producer is using a 
pathway that does not have a default value. In order 
to do so, the opera tor will select an approved 
Sustainability Certification Scheme (SCS) from a list 
that will be included in an ICAO document entitled 
“CORSIA Approved Sustainability Certification 
Schemes.” The SCS will ensure that the methodology 
applied is approved for CO RSIA. While ICAO will 
approve SCS, ICAO will not certify the CORSIA eligible 
fuels.  
The emissions reductions will be deducted from the 
operator’s total offsetting requirements at the end of each 3 -year compliance period. The deduction can, 
however, only be  claimed for the compliance period 
during which the CORSIA -eligible  fuel was blended .
63 
  
63 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 2.3.3.4.  

--- PÁGINA 34 ---

 
   
 
34 CORSIA  Handbook  Eligible  emissions units  
To meet their offsetting requirements, operators will 
have to purchase and cancel a quantity of “CORSIA 
eligible emissions units” correspondi ng to their final 
offsetting requirements. The ICAO Council will 
determine which emissions units are eligible for use 
under CORSIA.64 
The Council’s decision will be informed by a 
recommendation from the Technical Advisory Body  
and by eligibility criteria approved by the Council. The 
list of eligible emission units is available on the ICAO 
website in an ICAO document  entitled “CORSIA 
Eligible Emissions Units.” 
Assembly Resolution A39 -3 stipulates that emissions 
units generated from mechanisms established under 
the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement shall be eligible 
for use in CORSIA, provided that they align with decisions by the ICAO Council.  This was further 
supported in Assembly Resolution  A41- 22. 
In addition to emissions units from the compliance 
market, there are several offset standards that  could 
offer high -quality offsets for international aviation and 
could be considered for CORSIA, including voluntary offs et standards and REDD+.  
Several standards were developed to provide companies and individuals wishing to offset their 
emissions on a voluntary basis the certainty that the offsets that they purchase are environmentally 
effective. Provided these standards m eet ICAO’s 
criteria, they could make high -quality offsets available 
to aviation, often with co -benefits for biodiversity, 
employment, health,  and more.  
Examples of offset certified under voluntary standards include those from wind energy, landfill 
methane,  smaller community -focused energy 
efficiency,  and clean cookstove  projects.  
Operators can purchase any eligible emissions unit 
and can , therefore, choose to privilege emissions 
units from projects hosted in their home state, in 
states they operate to,  or in developing countries as 
long as those units are held as CORSIA eligible.  
 
 
64 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 4.2.  Emissions Units Criteria  
The Emissions Units Eligibility Criteria guarantee that 
eligible emissions units deliver the desired CO 2 
reductions. The criteria are based on principles 
commonly applied under existing trading 
mechanisms and certification schemes.  
Additionality, permanence,  and 
leakage  
A key requirement is that the CO 2 reduction or 
removal used as an offset be ‘additional’ to business-
as-usual activity. Additionality addresses the 
question: “would the activity have occurred, holding 
all else constant, were the activity not implemented as 
an offset project?” Or, in simpl er terms , “would the 
project have happened anyway?”  
Offsets must also represent a permanent reduction of 
emissions that cannot be reversed. Similarly, an activity that generates offsets should not result in 
unintended increases in emissions elsewhere.  
Baseline and quantification  
A baseline must be determined to quantify the 
emission reduction benefits from an offsetting 
project . The baseline corresponds to what would 
have happened if the project had not been implemented. The baseline being a hypothetical 
scenario, it is important that it be realistic and 
credible. The emissions reductions calculated against the baseline should be quantified using 
accurate measurements, valid protocols, and be 
externally audited.  
No double -counting and 
traceability  
Generally speaking, double counting occurs when an emissions reduction is counted more than once towards attaining climate change mit igation.  
One type of double counting is double use. Double 
use occurs if the same emissions unit is used twice by 
the same operator to attain different mitigation 
requirements or pledges.  

--- PÁGINA 35 ---

 
   
 
35 CORSIA  Handbook  In contrast , to double use, double selling (same 
emissions unit is  used by two entities) and double 
issuance (more than one unit is issued for the same 
emission reduction) are within the control of 
emissions unit programs. Double claiming would 
occur if a country that  hosts emissions unit programs 
were to count the reduc tions associated with units 
used for CORSIA towards its own mitigation pledges.  
Emissions Units Programs will need to demonstrate 
that they have procedures in place to ensure 
identification and tracking of units. They will also need 
to provide information on how they address risks of double -counting and demonstrate that host 
countries of emissions reduction activities do not include the respective reductions in their national 
greenhouse gas accounting. On the other hand, the 
host country needs to conduct the corresponding 
adjustment  to deduct the emissions units claimed by 
aircraft operators for CORSIA compliance purposes 
from its national repository. The Verification Body will 
need to ensure that the operator hasn’t used the units 
canceled  for CORSIA to off set any other emissions.  
Environmental and social risks  
Emissions unit  programs will also need to have in 
place safeguards to address environmental and 
social risks and disclose how the sustainability criteria 
are satisfied.  
 Purchasing emissions units 
Operators can purchase emissions units through different ways, including from:  
• Project developers: an operator could 
purchase emissions units directly from the 
person or organization coordinating a carbon offset project;  
• Brokers: as emissions units are int angible 
commodities traded in a market exchange, one common way to purchase emissions 
units is through a market trader or broker. 
Brokers will locate emissions units that 
respond to the operators’ quantitative and 
qualitative requirements and introduce the  
buyer to the seller(s).  
• Aggregators: aggregators will develop a carbon offset portfolio for their clients from a 
variety of projects.  
• Retailer/wholesale: some organizations sell 
carbon offsets to the public in small or large 
quantities.  
As tradeable commodities, the price of emissions 
units can vary significantly depending on the 
characteristics of the emissions units, notably the type of project, the standard under which it is 
certified, and market dynamics. 
 

--- PÁGINA 36 ---

 
   
 
36 CORSIA  Handbook  Cancelling emissions 
units  
In order to meet their offsetting requirements, it is 
essential  that operators “cancel” the required 
quantity of emissions units. When an emissions unit is 
canceled , it is taken out of circulation an d becomes 
unavailable for any other uses. It is only if an 
emissions unit is canceled  for the purpose of 
compliance with CORSIA that it can be used to 
comply with offsetting requirements.  
The cancellation of an emissions unit will be reflected 
in a registr y. Registries are databases which allow to 
keep track of emissions units and related 
transactions. Registries are notably important to 
minimize the risk of double- counting.  
Operators will have to request that the registry in 
which its emissions units are canceled publishes 
detailed information on the units canceled . The 
information should include the quantity, serial 
numbers, the date of cancellation, the program, the 
unit type, the host country, the methodology, the 
demonstration of unit date eligibility,  and the name of 
the operator in whose name the units were 
canceled.65 Emissions unit cancellation 
report  
The information on the emissions units canceled by 
an operator will need to be compiled in an emissions 
unit cancellation report  for submission to the 
administrating authority after verification.66 
Operators will have until 30 April following the 
notification of their  final offsetting requirements to 
submit the verified report.67 
The emissions unit cancellation report will need to 
include information on the operator, the compliance 
period years reported, the total final offsetting 
requirements, and the total quantity of emissions 
units canceled . Detailed information for each batch of 
emissions units canceled  will also have to be 
provided: serial numbers; date of cancellation; eligible emissions unit program; unit type, host country, methodology, demonstration of unit date eligibility; 
registry name; identifier for the registry account to 
which the bat ch was cancelled; the name of the 
operator in whose name the units were cancelled; 
identifier for the registry account from which the cancellation was initiated.
68
 
65 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 4.2.2.  
66 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part II, 4.3.  67 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 1.  
68 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 5.  

--- PÁGINA 37 ---

 
    
37 CORSIA  Handbook  Verification of Units 
Like  the annual emissions reports, the emissions unit 
cancellation report will have to be verified by an 
independent verification body.69  
The objective of the verification will be to ensure that the operator has accurately reported cancellations of 
eligible emissions units and that the number of emissions units canceled  is sufficient to meet the 
operator’s final offsetting requirements. The verification will also aim to ensure that the emissions units have not been used to offset any other 
emissions.  
The verification body engaged for the emissions unit 
cancellation report may be the same as for the emissions report,  but the scope of its accreditation 
shall specifically include the verification of emissions unit cancellation reports. This requires the verification body to demonstrate knowledge of 
greenhouse gas information, data management systems, controls, and  basic knowledge of 
greenhouse gas markets and emissions unit  program  
registries.  
Verification requirements  
Like  the emissions report, the verifi cation body will 
need to provide “reasonable assurance” that the claimed volume of eligible emissions unit 
cancellations is accurate and sufficient to meet the 
operator’s offsetting requirements for the given  
compliance period.
70  
In accordance with Annex 16, volume IV, the objectives of 
the verification of an emissions  unit cancellation report 
are:  
• The operator has accurately reported 
cancellations of its eligible emissions units ; 
• The number of canceled  eligible emissions units 
is sufficient for meeting the operator’s total final offsetting requirements; 
• The operator can demonstrate the sole right of 
use to the canceled  eligible emissions units; and  
• The eligible emissions units canceled  have not 
been used  to offset any other emissions.
71 
 
69 Annex 16, vol. IV, Part I I, 4.4.  
70 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 2. An important difference between the verification of the emissions report and the emissions unit 
cancellation report is the materiality threshold. Such a “tolerance margin” is not allowed for the verification of the emissions unit cancellation report, and the 
verifier must verify that each reported canceled  
emissions unit is included in the report. This implies 
that the verifier should not use sampling
72 and that it 
needs to verify that none of the units have been used 
by th e operator to offset any other emissions.  
Verification activities  
The steps in the verification process for the 
emissions unit cancellation report are the same as for the emissions report. The verifier will need to conduct 
a strategic analysis and a risk analysis  to understand 
the scope and complexity of the verification as well as inherent and control risks. The strategic and risk 
analyses will inform the verification plan and guide the 
verification activities.  
The verification body will need to review and confirm 
that cancellations have been made in the name of the 
aeroplane operator, that the emissions units are 
eligible for CORSIA, and  that they have been canceled 
in a program registry in accordance with CORSIA’s 
requirements. The review will be based  on the 
information published in the relevant program 
registry, the list of CORSIA -eligible emissions units to 
be published by ICAO, and the emissions unit 
cancellation report.  
The verification body will also confirm that the 
number of canceled eligible emissions units is 
sufficient and ensure that the operator has the sole 
right of use to the canceled  eligible emissions units. 
The sole right of use can, for example,  be 
demonstrated by the operator with  contractual 
evidence of acquisition/transfer of the units,  
contractual evidence of instructions to a third party to 
cancel the units on behalf of the operator, the terms  
and conditions of the program  registry where the 
units have been canceled , and the information 
published by the program registry.  
The verifier will also seek to ensure that the units have 
not been used by the operator to offset any other 
emissions. This i ncludes  the use of the units under 
other regulatory schemes  (domestic or international) , 
as well as  any voluntary schemes. The operator will 
71 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 3. 
72 Annex 16, vol. IV, Appendix 6, 3. 9.2. 

--- PÁGINA 38 ---

 
   
 
38 CORSIA  Handbook  need to inform the verifier about any schemes it has 
participated or is participating in. The verification 
body wil l review information regarding the scheme to 
determine whether the eligible emissions units may  
also be used under the other program(s) and, if so, 
review cancellation information under the other 
schemes. The verifier should also check the 
operator’s inter nal control and risk management 
procedures put in place to mitigate the risk of double 
use. Voluntary schemes may include  programs under 
which the operator offsets  their own emissions and 
also carbon offset ting  programs  made available to 
customers . In addition to relevant registries, the 
verifier will review public reporting materials, such as 
CSR reports or submissions made under reporting 
initiatives.  