DOCUMENTO: Nesting-of-REDD-Initiatives-Manual-for-Policymakers (1)
PARTE 2 de 7
Páginas 16 a 30
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 16 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers7
The international policy framework that 
provides incentives for REDD+ has motivated 
many developing country governments to review 
their land-use policies . T o reduce emissions from 
deforestation and forest degradation, and to support 
the role of conservation, the sustainable management 
of forests, and the enhancement of forest carbon 
stocks in developing countries, policymakers at the 
national and subnational scales have developed 
strategies that seek to protect or expand forests 
while promoting economic development ( Box 1 ). In 
some cases, governments have expressed interest 
in seeking results-based finance (RBF) for reduced 
emissions, while in other countries preexisting 
forest carbon projects, or projects that are under 
development are registered under voluntary carbon 
market standards to generate tradable carbon 
credits. Several countries are also looking for ways 
to integrate subnational programs and projects 
into their national REDD+ strategies. Nesting is an 
approach that can be used to integrate the actions 
of smaller-scale REDD+ initiatives into larger-scale 
jurisdictional  (national or subnational) approaches.
6 UNFCCC Decision 15-9/CP. 19. https:/ /unfccc.int/topics/land-use/resources/warsaw-framework-for-redd-plus
7 UNFCCC Decision 2/CP. 13 Annex, 7Box 1:  What Is REDD+?
The concept of “REDD+” first emerged in 2007 
during the negotiations under the UN Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Then, in 
2013, in Warsaw, the Conference of the Parties (COP) 
to UNFCCC agreed on a set of decisions known as the 
Warsaw Framework for REDD+,6 which encourages 
developing countries to pursue mitigation actions in 
the forest sector, and all countries to support such 
efforts, including through finance.  The Warsaw 
Framework includes guidance for countries on how 
to develop a forest reference emission level (FREL) 
as a benchmark of REDD+ performance. It also 
demonstrates how entities that are financing REDD+, 
including the Green Climate Fund (GCF), can apply 
methodological guidance that is consistent with 
COP decisions. REDD+ was conceived as a national 
approach for encouraging the adoption of policies 
to reduce deforestation, and accounting for ERs at 
the national level. However, in view of the challenges 
of implementing a fully national approach, COP has 
recognized that subnational approaches can be used 
as a step toward national approaches.7 In addition, 
many countries now host and/or encourage project-
scale activities as part of their national REDD+ 
strategies. The term REDD+ is also used more broadly, 
sometimes simply to mean reducing emissions (or 
increasing removals) in the forest sector of developing 
countries. 
Experience has shown that countries with REDD+ 
projects that were implemented in order to generate 
carbon credits in jurisdictional ER programs 
have faced multiple challenges. These have been 
particularly severe in situations where there are 
mismatches in the GHG accounting of projects 
and jurisdictional programs; this often requires 
continued negotiations among the governments and 
implementation entities, and can be challenging for 
both countries and projects. Nested systems enable 
INTRODUCTION:   
HOW AND WHY TO USE 
THIS MANUAL


--- PÁGINA 17 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers8
the alignment of GHG accounting at various scales, to 
promote the environmental integrity of carbon credits 
issued at multiple scales. The advantages of designing 
a nested system or framework has been emphasized 
during the past few years; however, there has been a 
lack of comprehensive guidance for designing them. 
This manual seeks to address that gap.
The need for this manual emerged from the 
FCPF Carbon Fund experience of piloting REDD+ 
implementation initiatives . Consultations with 
stakeholders implementing such initiatives in 
subnational and national ER program jurisdictions 
supported through the World Bank’s Forest Carbon 
Partnership Facility (FCPF)8 Carbon Fund have 
revealed a need for guidance in aligning REDD+ 
initiatives at various geographic scales in order to 
enhance national ambition, ensure environmental 
integrity, and avoid the double counting of REDD+ 
mitigation outcomes. The experience of the FCPF 
Carbon Fund has also highlighted the need to 
bridge significant knowledge gaps among various 
stakeholders—that is, governments, public and 
private implementing entities, and participants and 
stakeholders of REDD+ initiatives at various levels.  
The purpose of this manual is to provide countries 
with practical advice and guidance for developing a 
“nested” system for REDD+ implementation.  Nested 
REDD+ systems present pathways for integrating 
subnational programs or projects into national REDD+ 
strategies; and the nesting of REDD+ initiatives 
can promote the environmental integrity of carbon 
credits issued . Nested REDD+ initiatives can also 
enable countries to confront deforestation and forest 
degradation of various types and scales, from broad 
public policies to site-specific activities, allowing 
the intervention of public and private actors to 
complement their actions. 
A “nested” approach was first proposed in 2007,9 and 
since then several publications10 have elaborated it. 
Basically, nested systems allow a country to access 
multiple sources of finance—from public-sector 
climate finance to private-sector carbon finance—to 
support REDD+ activities.  The Paris Agreement has 
created new obligations for countries to meet their  
8 The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) is one of the earliest multilateral initiatives to support REDD+ implementation in developing countries through two complementary funds. The 
Readiness Fund provides support for enhancing the technical and institutional capacity to design and implement national REDD+ strategies; promoting stakeholder engagement; implementing 
environmental and social safeguards; and enhancing the capacity for monitoring and reporting on REDD+ activities. The FCPF Carbon Fund extends results-based payments to developing 
countries for emission reductions achieved through the implementation of REDD+ ER programs.
9 Pedroni, L., Streck, C., Estrada, M. and Dutschke, M. 2007 . The Nested Approach: A Flexible Mechanism to Reduce Emissions from Deforestation. CATIE, Turrialba, Costa Rica.
10 Angelsen et al.  2008. “What Is the Right Scale for REDD? National, Subnational and Nested Approaches. ” CIFOR Working Paper. Pedroni, L. et al . 2009. “Creating Incentives for Avoiding 
Further Deforestation:  The Nested Approach. ” Climate Policy  9: 207–220; Cortez, R. et al  2010. A Nested Approach to REDD+: Structuring Effective and Transparent Incentive Mechanisms for REDD+ 
Implementation at Multiple Scales . The Nature Conservancy; Chagas T. et al.  2011. Nested Approaches to REDD+: An Overview of Issues and Options . Forest Trends; Kashwan, P. and Holahan, R. 2014. 
“Nested Governance for Effective REDD+: Institutional and Political Arguments. International Journal of the Commons . 2014. 8 (2): 554–575; Gibbon, A . et al . 2014. Planning Guide: Integrating REDD+ 
Accounting Within a Nested Approach: Lowering Emissions in Asia’s Forests .: (LEAF), USAID; Pearson, T. et al.  2016. Guidance Document: Options for Nesting REDD+ Projects . Pub City: Winrock Interna -
tional; Lee, D. et al.  2018. Approaches to REDD+ Nesting Lessons Learned from Country Experiences , Washington, DC: World Bank.climate targets in the form of nationally determined 
contributions (NDCs), which are relevant for the 
carbon accounting of projects and programs: this too 
can be addressed by the nesting of REDD+ initiatives. 
The need to integrate project-level activities into 
national REDD+ strategies; interest in accessing 
multiple sources of finance; and the demands of 
carbon accounting under the Paris Agreement have led 
to a demand from policymakers for guidance on how 
to develop nested REDD+ systems that respond to a 
variety of national circumstances. 
Although the objective of FCPF is to support 
jurisdictional REDD+ implementation through the 
nesting of programs and projects, this manual includes 
an overview of other models of REDD+ implementation 
that have been observed on the ground as well, in 
order to clarify the differences between nested models 
and other models of REDD+ implementation.
This manual provides guidance for countries on how 
to align the accounting for projects with subnational 
and national accounting procedures, as well as how 
to identify steps for integrating the mechanisms used 
to access the financing needed to implement national 
REDD+ strategies. T ogether with the accompanying 
Decision Support T ool (DST), decision makers are 
guided through a step-by-step process of selecting, 
planning, and implementing a nested REDD+ system. 
The manual is divided into three parts. 
Part 1.  Designing a Nested System guides users 
through key issues and questions to consider when 
designing an overall nested approach. The policy 
objectives likely to be considered include national 
forest or climate-change targets and the means for 
achieving them, including access to finance. Other 
contexts critical to the design of a nested system 
include land (forest) tenure, and who has the right to 
carbon from activities that reduce the emissions from 
deforestation and forest degradation. We present four 
basic models, which offer several options for accessing 
various forms of REDD+ results-based finance RBF, 
including two “nested” archetypes.  

--- PÁGINA 18 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers9
MANUAL
DECISION SUPPORT TOOLReﬁne the elements for the selected 
nested system, establish a timeline 
and monitor progress
DECISION SUPPORT TOOL
Design the nested system Implement the nested systemFigure 3. Process Diagram: How to Use this Manual, and the Decision Support T oolPart 2.  Elements of a Nested System  elaborates 
the specific elements needed, including MRV and 
accounting systems, legal issues, benefit sharing, 
and safeguards. It analyzes them, and clarifies the 
actions and priorities that need to be considered in 
each of them. These elements should be considered 
as illustrative, to be adapted to each country’s 
unique circumstances, taking into consideration the 
requirements of various REDD+ initiatives or carbon 
standards. Part 3.  Implementation of a Nested System 
describes the steps in designing and implementing a 
nested system, including consultations, the adoption 
of a regulatory framework, and the establishment of 
a registry. 
Additionally, Appendix B provides instructions on the 
use of the Decision Support T ool (DST), and explains 
how it can complement the use of the manual . The 
DST helps users identify the nesting model that best 
reflects their national circumstances, as well as the 
relevant elements for the model they have selected.

--- PÁGINA 19 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers10
PART I:  
NESTING DESIGN
This part presents the main considerations that 
inform a government’s decision making regarding 
nested REDD+.  
1. NESTING AND ITS OBJECTIVES
For the purpose of this manual, “nesting” refers to 
the alignment of the accounting of greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emission reductions and removals (ERs) from 
REDD+ activities across multiple scales . For example, 
a government may be seeking to receive results-
based payments, or to generate and issue carbon 
credits at the jurisdictional scale, while projects (or 
smaller jurisdictions within the larger jurisdictional 
program) are simultaneously accounting for ERs, and 
are generating carbon credits. Although “nesting” 
is referred to in this narrow sense, REDD+ nesting 
also reflects an integrated policy framework that 
implements REDD+ across various implementation 
and governance levels (Box 2). For this reason, the 
manual refers generically to four models of REDD 
implementation, but only calls two of the models 
“nested systems. ” Box 2:  What is Nesting?
There is no internationally agreed-upon definition for 
nesting. In fact, people often mean quite different 
things when using this term. Some consider nesting 
in the narrow context of aligning GHG “measurement, 
monitoring and reporting” of smaller-scale systems; 
for example, projects with larger-scale (subnational 
or national) systems such as those that align ER 
claims by carbon projects with the GHG inventories 
that form the basis for nationally determined 
contributions (NDCs). Others take a broader view that 
nesting is about harmonizing the implementation 
of REDD+ activities at multiple governance levels 
and geographical scales. In the latter case, nesting 
can encompass, for example, national-scale ER 
programs that employ a benefit-sharing approach 
for distributing finance received from monetizing 
ERs; frameworks that enable site-scale activities; or 
small-scale projects that can directly generate and 
issue ERs. 
A well-designed nested system reflects the policies, 
priorities, rights, and regulatory framework for 
implementing REDD+ within a country.  It promotes 
environmental integrity and sets a foundation for 
avoiding the double counting of ERs by facilitating the 
alignment of measurement, reporting, and verification 
(MRV) systems. It establishes institutional 
arrangements for operating and maintaining the 
system in order to manage the risks inherent in 
nesting. Nesting is also closely linked to forest 
policies, benefit sharing, and safeguards. All of these 
elements are discussed in subsequent sections of this 
manual.
In many cases, countries are pursuing jurisdictional 
ER programs, while projects are simultaneously 
generating verified carbon credits.  This has created a 
challenging situation for many countries, particularly 
where there are significant mismatches between the 
various GHG accounting systems. Setting up a nested 
system therefore often requires an adjustment of the 


--- PÁGINA 20 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers11
processes for existing programs and projects; this 
can be challenging, but the sooner such a system is 
developed, the smoother the transition will be. 
1.1 Determining the Objectives of Nesting
A nested REDD+ system is at its core a national 
policy; therefore, it should be driven by national 
policy priorities . Before designing a nested system, a 
country should decide why  it wants to develop such a 
system, and should have in mind clear objectives, and 
a clear idea of the planned scope, and applicability. 
Some of the possible objectives for the development 
of a nested system are presented below, in Box 3 .
It is helpful for a government to have clarity 
concerning its forest and climate-change policy 
objectives before  designing a nested system  (Box 
3). These may be clearly spelled out in a national 
REDD+ strategy; through forest sector goals 
that are communicated through another policy 
or legal instrument; or in the national climate-
change policy and/or the country’s NDC under 
the Paris Agreement. While achieving forest or 
climate-related policy objectives is the main goal 
of national REDD+ strategies, other objectives that 
influence policy decisions include poverty reduction, 
rural development, and food security. In addition, 
governments may be seeking to support vulnerable 
communities and empower local actors. The bundle 
of national aspirations regarding REDD+ will likely 
determine the way nesting is designed.
Next the government should explore pathways for 
achieving its forest and climate change goals; for 
example, which policies and measures it envisages 
for reducing deforestation . REDD+ strategies often 
include policies and measures the government 
may target as drivers—for example, minimizing 
agricultural expansion, or illegal logging—or 
underlying causes of deforestation, such as conflicted 
land titles, or weak law enforcement. Some actions 
may require the adoption of government policies, or 
increased government enforcement of existing laws 
and policies. Other actions may require targeted 
interventions that attempt to change the behavior 
of those responsible for forest loss, or provide direct 
assistance to and partnership with local actors. 
Policymakers need to review the landscape of 
available finance, including budgetary resources, 
and decide how such financing can help achieve their 
11  One useful resource for evaluating and designing a REDD+ financing system is Charlotte Streck and Brian Murry’s Financing Land Use Mitigation: A Practical Guide for Policy Makers. 2015. 
(Winrock) .
12  Countries may choose to implement REDD+ at a subnational scale as an interim step toward national implementation. Throughout the text we often refer to “national” scale with the 
understanding that it may also apply to subnational scales.forest and climate goals .11 There are many types 
of international finance available to governments, 
including official development assistance (ODA); 
loans from multilateral financial institutions; and/
or other types of grant financing from public, private, 
or philanthropic sources. Climate finance, both 
investment finance and results-based finance (RBF) 
for REDD+, and carbon market finance are other 
potential sources (see Section 3.2). In assessing the 
landscape of potential funding sources, policymakers 
can determine which types of finance are available to 
them; which financing conditions they can realistically 
achieve; and within what time frame it can be done, 
given their national circumstances and institutional 
constraints. For example, many countries are already 
receiving ODA, or have projects that are participating 
in voluntary carbon markets. On the other hand, 
access to market-based finance at the jurisdictional 
level requires technical capacities, coordinated action 
from multiple government ministries, and actions 
from stakeholders at several levels; thus it may take 
significant time to accomplish. 
Once a country has determined how climate and 
carbon finance can support implementation of 
REDD+, and which types of financing it wishes to 
seek, it can consider how to optimize access to 
such finance.  For example, if a government wishes 
to take advantage of both project-scale voluntary 
markets and RBF from the Green Climate Fund (GCF), 
it may need to promote alignment in accounting 
at the project and national (or subnational) levels.12 
Countries that are parties to the Paris Agreement also 
need to periodically report on their climate mitigation 
performance, and ensure the environmental integrity 
of such achievement. Hence, it is crucial to manage 
issues such as leakage, permanence, additionality, 
and the carbon accounting of REDD+ activities that 
are being implemented at different levels.
Engagement in market-based transactions under 
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement requires additional 
considerations . T o participate in an Article 6 
transaction, a government would need to transfer ERs 
and make a “corresponding adjustment” (CA) to its 
national GHG accounting (see Sections 3.4and 11.1). 
If they wish to engage in transactions under Article 
6 at the project or subnational level, there could be 
a strong motivation for nesting, in order to align the 
MRV of projects and programs with national-scale 
GHG monitoring and reporting.

--- PÁGINA 21 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers12
Box 3: Why Do Countries Want to 
Develop Nested Systems?
Our research for this report revealed that at least 
17 countries have an interest in developing nested 
REDD+ systems. While each country is unique, and 
circumstances differ from country to country, there 
are several common reasons why many countries are 
now interested in developing nested systems.
One of the most common reasons cited by forested 
countries is to be able to gain access to multiple 
sources of financing in order to achieve their forest 
and climate change goals . Countries see nesting 
as a way to organize various streams of carbon 
finance—including voluntary markets, funds such 
as the FCPF Carbon Fund or BioCF-ISFL, as well 
as nonmarket payments through donor-funded 
schemes such as GCF’s results-based payments 
program, or the REDD Early Movers Program. In 
many cases, nested systems are largely motivated 
by the government’s desire to access REDD+ results-
based payments, while also allowing projects to 
continue accessing private-sector finance. 
Countries also often see nesting as a way to 
supplement the government’s capacity to 
implement its national REDD+ strategy  through 
support for site-based activities. In such cases, the 
government recognizes that national policies are 
crucial for reducing deforestation, but also that 
projects can help to support the management of 
forests and protected areas, particularly when it is 
insufficiently funded by government programs.  
Some countries also see nesting as a way to avoid 
double counting of ERs . Most countries have not 
yet considered how to achieve their Paris Agreement 
target, and the role that Article 6 transactions 
may play in this. However, several governments 
do see nesting, in particular the alignment of GHG 
measurement across scales, as fundamental to 
future considerations on double counting. 
Nesting is also seen as an opportunity to increase 
domestic support for REDD+ . By including a 
wide range of actors, nesting can increase broad 
ownership, and build REDD+ constituencies. In some 
cases, a country may have had positive experiences 
with early REDD+ projects that have generated 
financial flows to support the conservation or 
sustainable management of forests, and therefore 
want these flows to continue. Such projects may also have the strong support of local communities, 
or may be officially recognized as “early-action 
projects. ” As such, they are critical to building 
national support for REDD+.
Another common motivation for building a nested 
system is the mismatch between national GHG 
accounting and project-based crediting. Where there 
are multiple projects within a country or jurisdiction, 
this mismatch becomes more pronounced, and can 
put into question the environmental integrity of 
the projects’ ER claims. In such cases, countries 
look for ways to promote alignment among 
projects—leveling the playing field, and promoting 
“equal reward for equal effort”—and also to align 
project-level GHG monitoring with national GHG 
measurement and reporting approaches . In some 
instances, countries have privately voiced concern 
that projects are generating voluntary carbon 
credits that are not backed by real ERs, and they 
hope that nesting can help improve the credibility of 
project crediting. 
Hence, following a nesting approach allows countries 
not only to promote the alignment of accounting 
issues among projects and programs, but also to 
establish among all REDD+ activities a streamlined 
concept of key issues like permanence and 
additionality, while minimizing the risks of leakage. 


--- PÁGINA 22 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers13
1.2 General Considerations in Designing a 
Nested System
After a government has determined its objectives for 
a nested system, it should design the system in such 
a way as to achieve those objectives to the greatest 
extent possible. There are three fundamental design 
decisions: 
·	 Deciding the degree of centralization (or 
decentralization) for REDD+. A centralized 
approach focuses on receiving payments for 
ERs at the jurisdictional scale, with a benefit-
sharing system to distribute carbon benefits 
(monetary and nonmonetary) to subnational 
jurisdictions (states, municipalities), or nonstate 
actors (private actors, landowners, legal 
entities, communities, private sector companies, 
or others). In a decentralized structure the 
government authorizes the implementation of 
projects and programs, which are then carried 
out at lower scales, often with the participation 
of private actors to directly market and monetize 
ERs. Decentralized systems enable direct 
incentives for local actors to achieve GHG results 
without depending fully on government processes 
to attract carbon finance investors. The 
characteristics of centralized vs. decentralized 
systems are described in Part I Section 2.
·	 Defining the role that nonstate actors (private 
entities, communities, and nongovernmental 
entities) should play in the implementation 
of REDD+. Closely related to the first point, 
the government needs to decide how best to 
integrate nonstate entities into its REDD+ 
strategy, since ownership from a wide range of 
stakeholders will lead to more sustainable and 
more effective implementation. This decision 
is influenced by the standing and local rights 
that such nonstate actors possess, but also 
the extent to which the government wishes to 
rely on public policy alone to achieve REDD+ mitigation either directly (by addressing the 
drivers of deforestation) or indirectly (by 
providing incentives to local actors, including 
private investors, to address these drivers); or 
whether it wants to enable the local actors or 
REDD+ projects to receive incentives related 
to performance. If the latter is the case, the 
next consideration is whether local actors 
should be entitled to access carbon directly, or 
whether incentives should be provided through 
government-implemented programs.
·	 Determining the types and channels of climate 
and carbon finance to access. A government 
may decide that it wishes to encourage voluntary 
carbon market crediting at the project level, but 
also make efforts to access nonmarket payments 
at the jurisdictional level, for example from GCF. 
It may also decide to allow crediting at various 
levels—project, subnational, and national—or 
it may limit crediting to only certain levels. Or 
it may decide that certain REDD+ activities, 
such as reforestation, are more appropriate 
for implementation at the project level, while 
reducing deforestation is tackled more effectively 
at a jurisdictional level. The decisions about 
which type of crediting, and at what levels, are 
fundamental decisions to be made in designing a 
nested system. 
Before conceptualizing the design of the system, the 
government should contemplate a series of policy 
considerations. Several suggested questions are 
provided in T able 1  below. In many cases, the answers 
will depend on national circumstances. In the Decision 
Support T ool (DST) , users are asked to provide the 
responses that best, or most closely, characterize 
the situation in their country, recognizing that 
most contexts are complex, and multiple responses 
may often apply; or that quite nuanced answers 
may be appropriate. (See Appendix B for a detailed 
description of the Decision Support T ool.) 


--- PÁGINA 23 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers14
Key Question Explanation
As a government, which 
actor/s do you want to 
incentivize through results-
based climate, or carbon 
finance?  REDD+ results-based payments and/or carbon crediting can provide incentives for various 
entities to change their behavior. Thus it is useful to consider whose behavior needs to be 
changed. For example, in order to reduce deforestation, is it primarily government policy that is 
needed? Or is it perhaps private action and investment in implementing existing policies? What 
type of finance will be most effectively deployed, or will provide the appropriate incentives to 
the right actors? For example, there may be a critical need to halt forest loss through land 
tenure reform, which requires government policies supported by ODA, or nonmarket results-
based finance.  Alternatively, the priority may be to provide incentives to local communities or 
landowners to shift away from activities that cause deforestation—and carbon finance may 
be seen as an opportunity to provide such incentives. In some cases, both activities may be 
needed; this would be one reason to consider a nested system.
What climate or carbon 
finance opportunities are 
most relevant for your 
country?  Countries may consider the types of carbon finance they wish to access—from nonmarket 
REDD+ results-based finance, to market-based finance, or financing from domestic, 
international, or voluntary markets. (See Section 3.2  for a discussion of various sources.) 
Furthermore, a country may consider the scales that are the “best fit”  for accessing different 
types of finance. For example, a country may intend to access GCF REDD+ results-based 
finance at the national scale, while enabling local actors to engage in voluntary markets. In 
considering the various sources of financing, which are often unpredictable, countries should 
gauge the risks of depending on external sources, and understand the  requirements for 
accessing each of them.
What is the best role for the 
government to play with 
regard to REDD+? As an ER 
program manager, or as a 
regulator?  Government engagement in markets at the national scale entails the management of a 
country-wide ER program as well as responsibility for implementing activities, and ultimately 
for performance as well. In such a case, a country would have full control over ERs, including 
the monetization and disbursement of funds. At the other end of the spectrum, a country may 
simply allow projects to proliferate, unattended by the government. A middle road may be for a 
government to regulate projects – for example, attempt to drive projects to priority areas, align 
MRV systems, or ensure that safeguards are applied – but empower the projects to generate 
the credits and access carbon finance directly. 
What characterizes your 
country’s rules regarding land 
and forest ownership?A country’s system of land tenure and ownership and forest governance will influence the 
type of crediting that may occur within the country. For example, a country that has private 
ownership of land and strong property rights might have some added difficulties with 
subnational/national models compared to countries where the forests are nearly all state-
owned and managed.
What is your view of 
voluntary carbon projects?  In many cases, nesting is the result of existing and/or emerging voluntary forest carbon 
projects. In some instances, countries may wish to encourage projects, while in others they may 
not be allowed. And some countries may wish to encourage projects, but also want to regulate 
them—for example, to ensure that safeguard measures are applied, or to align them with 
jurisdictional programs.T able 1. Key Policy Considerations When Designing a Nested System
A country’s response to the above questions can help 
them choose the REDD+ implementation model that is 
most suitable for its needs. The next section discusses 
nesting in the context of REDD+ implementation 
models. It’s important to note that decisions about nesting 
are often limited by local circumstances and existing 
frameworks . For instance, limitations on the existing 
jurisdictional MRV system might limit the available 
options for nesting.  

--- PÁGINA 24 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers15
There are four simplified approaches, or models, that 
a government may adopt for REDD+ implementation . 
Based on our working definition of nesting, only the 
two middle models – centralized and decentralized 
– (shown in the blue box of Figure 4 ) are considered 
nested systems.  Countries can choose just one of the 
four models, or they can use a mixture of them (see 
Section 2.6). Or they may start with one model and 
evolve over time to a different model. The word “jurisdiction” can refer to either subnational 
or national jurisdictions throughout this manual 
(and vice-versa).  “Nesting” can refer to integrating 
a subnational jurisdiction into a national framework 
as well as integrating a project into a subnational 
or national framework. A summary of the simplified 
models of REDD+ implementation with nested systems 
is highlighted in Figure 4 , followed by more detailed 
descriptions in the subsections that follow.2. NESTING IN THE CONTEXT OF REDD+ IMPLEMENTATION MODELS
Figure 4 Summary of Four Simplified Models 
Centralized-nested 
Key features:
•  ERs credited up to national scale performance (only)
•  Projects encouraged and receive rewards based on GHG   
 performance (linked to national performance)
•  Government control over ERs and distribution of carbon   
 beneﬁts via an agreed ‘allocation method’
Project crediting (only), no jurisdictional ER program
Key features:
• ERs credited at project scale (only)
• Projects are incentivized, may be regulated
• No RBF or sale of carbon credits by the government
• Government role is regulator, not ER program managerDecentralized-nested
Key features:
• ERs credited at national and project scale
• Projects authorized to generate and market ERs 
 (delinked from national performance) 
•  Government generates ERs through public programs 
 and on public landsProjects receive
rewards based on
ER allocation approachCrediting at national level
Crediting at project scaleNested systemsJurisdictional ER program (only) with beneﬁt sharing
Key features:
• ERs credited at national scale (only)
• No forest carbon project crediting
• Government operates ER program and distributes beneﬁts Crediting at national level
Crediting at national level
Crediting at project scale

--- PÁGINA 25 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers16
2.1 Jurisdictional ER Program (Only), With 
Benefit Sharing
How does this model operate?
In this model, there is accounting for ERs only at the 
national scale. This model relies on the government’s 
ability to achieve ERs through government programs, 
and to monetize the ERs generated at the 
jurisdictional level. Local actors receive payments 
from the government as part of the government’s 
defined benefit-sharing arrangements ( Figure 5 ). The 
government has full control over the accounting and 
initial allocation of funds generated by the program, 
but the benefits may be channeled through 
nongovernmental means below a certain level. 
Example:  At the time of this report, in Ecuador, all 
ecosystems services belong to the state; therefore 
projects are not authorized to generate carbon 
credits.13 However, the country may receive payments 
for REDD+ performance, as it has done from the GCF, 
and it can transfer payments to beneficiaries through 
national forest schemes such as the SocioBosque 
program. This model is similar to Brazil’s Amazon 
Fund, through which the government receives 
payments for ERs in the Amazon region, and manages 
a program to disburse the funds they receive to local 
actors.
13  Ecuador’s GCF Funding Proposal provides relevant information in Section F “Legal Arrangements”.  Available at: https:/ /www.greenclimate.fund/document/ecuador-redd-plus-rbp-results-
period 2014 -What countries might be interested in this model?
Incentives: The government is responsible for 
implementing policies and measures to slow, halt, and 
reverse deforestation, and to create the necessary 
incentives and enabling environment to mobilize 
private sector finance. Local actors obtain incentives 
through defined benefit-sharing arrangements. 
Therefore, the government is the sole direct recipient 
of any climate or carbon finance. 
Rights: This model is the easiest to implement in cases 
where the public sector holds full control over forest 
lands, resources, and management. It is also suitable 
when the government relies on the enforcement of 
existing laws to achieve REDD+ mitigation. 
Finance:  The government wishes to support 
jurisdictional programs through REDD+ results-based 
finance (RBF); for example, finance provided by GCF 
or other bilateral arrangements, or market-based 
crediting at the jurisdictional scale. Carbon markets 
are not a direct source of financing for REDD+ projects, 
since carbon finance is received through the benefit-
sharing arrangements of the jurisdictional program. 
What is the key challenge of this model?
The key challenge is the development of benefit-
sharing arrangements that are acceptable to 
constituents, and the implementation of policies that 
will reduce deforestation. Where Indigenous and local 
communities or private entities manage significant 
parts of the forest estate, they may hold rights, 
including customary or use rights, that allow them to 
directly claim carbon rights. 
Figure 5 Jurisdictional ER Program (Only),  
with Benefit Sharing
Projects receive
rewards based on
ER allocation approachCrediting at national level Crediting at national levelFigure 5 Jurisdictional ER Program (Only), with Benefit Sharing


--- PÁGINA 26 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers17
T able 2. Benefits/Risks of Jurisdictional ER Program (Only), with Benefit Sharing
Benefits Risks
Gives the government full control over 
REDD+ credit (or payment) transactions… …but also places the full burden of achieving ERs, or creating the necessary policies to 
mobilize non-carbon private finance (for example, environmental fiscal instruments) 
on the government.
A government does not need to worry 
about “mismatches” in ER generation 
with projects……but the system does not provide strong performance incentives to local actors 
unless sufficient incentives are included in the benefit-sharing arrangements and 
guaranteed by the government.
The government has the flexibility to 
channel REDD+ payments based on 
national priorities……but in doing so it may not optimize GHG performance and contributions toward its 
NDC.
Requires potentially few REDD+ rules… …but requires robust national capacity to implement REDD+ activities and distribute 
benefits. 
May simplify national GHG accounting… …but may risk litigation if the system does not provide proper benefits to rights 
holders.


--- PÁGINA 27 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers18
2.2 Centralized Nested Approach
How does this model operate?  
In this model, ERs are accounted for at the national 
scale. However, because the government wishes to 
encourage projects through incentives that are linked 
to performance, it develops a system for sharing 
the benefits it receives from monetizing ERs at the 
national scale with projects. Approved projects may 
receive either payments or ERs from the government 
in accordance with its benefit-sharing arrangements 
and ER allocation system ( Figure 6 ). The key 
difference with the jurisdictional ER model above is 
that projects can measure their own ER performance, 
and can receive a share of the ERs. This model implies 
that rewards for private action are dependent on 
national performance, unless the government is 
willing to make up any shortfalls by compensating 
projects. 
Example: The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)’s 
benefit-sharing arrangements for the FCPF Carbon 
Fund provides payments for GHG performance to 
carbon projects, as well as the possibility for projects 
to receive a share of the ERs that are generated by 
the ER program, but are not purchased by the Carbon 
Fund. A national government can also allocate ERs or 
payments to subnational jurisdictions. For example, 
in 2017 Brazil created a system whereby states 
within the Amazon were provided with a share of the 
regionally achieved ERs to monetize.14
Figure 6 Centralized Nested Approach 
Projects receive
rewards based on
ER allocation approachCrediting at national level Crediting at national level
14  More detailed explanations of the DRC example can be found at: https:/ /openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/ 29720 /10986What countries might be interested in this model?
Incentives:  REDD+ requires a combination of 
government and local action; however, the 
government may wish to control international ER 
transactions and link them to national performance. 
The main goal of nesting is to incentivize projects to 
contribute to the national performance. 
Rights:  This model works best for state-owned 
lands, including where a government has licensed out 
management of parts of the forest estate. The land 
managers that own the carbon rights receive benefits 
in the form of funds or ERs, as a reward for measured 
GHG ERs.
Finance:  The government is interested in accessing 
REDD+ RBF provided by GCF, the FCPF Carbon Fund, 
or other bilateral arrangements, or market-based 
crediting at the national scale; and wishes to create 
incentives for subnational programs or projects 
closely linked to measured GHG ERs.
What are the key challenges of this model?
Generating a transparent and fair allocation of 
incentives to projects, and devising an accepted 
means of allocating payments or ERs are the main 
challenges of this model. Projects may not receive 
benefits for their share in mitigation actions if the 
overall jurisdiction falls short in achieving sufficient 
ERs, or the government does not distribute benefits 
fairly. This may undermine the incentives to change 
behavior at the local level for activities that are 
dependent on carbon finance.

--- PÁGINA 28 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers19
2.3 Decentralized Nested Approach
How does this model operate?
In this model, the crediting and monetizing of ERs 
occurs at both the national and the project scale. 
Projects can directly generate and issue tradable ERs 
that do not depend on national performance ( Figure 
7). Depending on the context, the government may be 
required to subtract project credits when calculating 
their national ER claims. The government regulates 
project MRV and safeguards to promote alignment 
with national approaches. 
Example: Colombia allows the development of REDD+ 
projects and programs that can directly generate ERs. 
In 2018, the government adopted a regulation that 
defined MRV rules for projects.15 The country engages 
in RBF through the REDD Early Movers program and 
GCF, but it also promotes private actions to protect 
forests by recognizing ERs from REDD+ projects under 
the national carbon tax, and future emissions trading 
system.  
What countries might be interested in this model?
Incentives:  REDD+ requires a combination of 
government and local actions; in this model, 
projects can access carbon credits in compliance 
with government rules, but without governmental 
intermediation. This system is designed to drive 
carbon finance directly to projects. 
Rights: This model recognizes the rights of 
community and private landowners to monetize 
carbon rights and benefit from the ERs that result 
from reducing deforestation on their land. 
15  Resolution No. 1447 , August 2018  ,1. Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development, Colombia  Finance: The government wishes to engage private 
sector finance, including direct investments into 
REDD+, and also REDD+ results-based finance at the 
national scale. .
What is the key challenge of this model?
The development of an MRV system for projects 
that align with the national MRV, particularly 
where a country foresees significant crediting at 
the project scale (compared to national mitigation), 
is challenging. This may require a sophisticated 
national forest monitoring system, and institutional 
arrangements that can regulate projects and manage 
their reporting in a national registry or database.
Figure 7 Decentralized Nested Approach
Crediting at national level
Crediting at project scaleCrediting at project scale
REDD+
project REDD+
projectFigure 7 Decentralized Nested Approach Benefits Risks
Government can benefit from ERs 
generated at the project level… …but remains liable for generating and allocating REDD+ benefits.
Local action may be incentivized through 
the ER allocation system……but if projects do not receive rewards unless there is national performance, it is 
likely to stifle carbon-related investment. 
Protects government from “overselling” 
ERs beyond national performance……but may be placing national underperformance risks on private projects.
The government claims control over 
carbon rights……but may risk litigation if the system does not provide proper benefits to rights 
holders (project developers, project beneficiaries).T able 3. Benefits/Risks of the Centralized Nested Approach

--- PÁGINA 29 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers20
2.4 Project Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional 
ER Program 
How does this model operate?
In this model, crediting only occurs at the project 
scale ( Figure 8 ), and the government does not intend 
to monetize ERs at the national scale. This approach 
applies to countries that do not depend on national 
carbon payments to finance government programs. 
For example, the government may still be 
implementing REDD+ and may want to regulate 
projects in order to promote equity in how carbon 
benefits are enjoyed; to increase the environmental 
integrity of projects; or to ensure that safeguards are 
being applied. This model would allow them to 
regulate projects in order to achieve such goals and/or 
to align the MRV of projects with national GHG 
accounting, which may be a factor if future Article 6 
transactions are envisioned.
Example:  This model may be relevant for countries 
that consider REDD+ projects to be a good mechanism 
for addressing the drivers of deforestation, since they 
are in line with government policies and frameworks. 
In this case, the government may wish to align ER 
claims with their national forest monitoring, but not 
intend to access results-based payments, or issue 
jurisdictional forest carbon credits. 
What countries might be interested in this model?
Incentives:  Climate and carbon finance are focused 
on encouraging local and private action. In this model, 
the government is not dependent on accessing RBF or 
carbon finance to support their policies. 
Rights: This model is most appropriate for countries 
with private and community forest landholdings with 
strong property rights. Finance: The country implements national forest and 
REDD+ policies without receiving RBF payments. It 
is primarily interested in advancing private sector 
carbon finance; it does not seek to monetize GHG 
performance at the national scale. 
What are the key challenges for this model?
In this model, the government needs to either 
self-finance, or find other sources of financing for 
implementing its forest policies outside of the project 
areas. If the country is only engaging voluntary 
market projects, and not expecting to monetize 
national performance, the urgency to align the MRV 
systems of all projects is diminished; the government 
may consider applying requirements to ensure the 
environmental integrity of ERs generated within its 
national jurisdiction. 
Figure 8. Project Crediting (Only)Figure 8. Project Crediting (Only)Benefits Risks
Engages private finance, including the 
potential to generate upfront finance to 
protect forests… …but requires significant technical capacity to develop MRV and carbon accounting 
rules; the political will to adopt them; and strong institutional capacities for 
processing project requests, including assessing the data and the information 
submitted by projects.
Mobilizes local action to contribute to 
forest and climate change goals……but the government may face a “national underperformance” risk if project GHG 
performance exceeds national GHG performance.
Allows for the recognition of REDD+ and 
the natural resource rights of forest 
communities and Indigenous peoples….…but risks unscrupulous project developers taking advantage of communities 
unless the government adopts minimum requirements on benefit sharing, and 
enforces safeguards. ( Note: This is the case in any scenario that involves projects).
Aligns the GHG accounting of REDD+ 
projects with the national system…but requires technical capacity to manage MRV alignment at different scales, and 
a national registry or database to regulate and track project accounting.T able 4. Benefits/Risks of the Decentralized Nested Approach
Crediting at national level
Crediting at project scaleCrediting at project scale
REDD+
project REDD+
project

--- PÁGINA 30 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers21
2.5 Key Differences Between the Models
This section highlights several of the key differences 
between the models presented above. One key 
difference between the two nested models is whether 
a country wishes to develop a system that limits and allocates ERs based on national performance 
(the centralized model), or whether it wishes to 
give projects more autonomy in generating ERs 
(the decentralized model). Figure 9 illustrates this 
difference.Benefits Risks
Engages private finance in protecting 
forests, and offers the potential to 
generate upfront interest in private 
sector finance in carbon offsets as a 
return on their investment… …but may require financial, technical, and institutional capacity, depending on the 
level of the desired regulation of projects.
Is simple, with very low risk for litigation 
or conflicts with respect to carbon rights……but may result in GHG performance being limited to project areas, if the 
government fails to implement national forest and REDD+ policies.
May lead to a higher volume of ERs 
achieved per unit of area……but may result in impacts on environmental integrity due to overestimation of 
ERs, unless rules are established in support of robust MRV.
Allows for private sector partnerships 
with  forest communities and Indigenous 
peoples….…but risks project developers taking advantage of communities unless the 
government adopts minimum requirements on benefit sharing, and enforces 
safeguards. T able 5. Benefits/Risks of the Project Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional  ER Program
Centralized-nested Decentralized-nested
Set national FREL Set national FREL
Allocate FREL to projects
(or subnational units)
Calculate results (ERs)
ER or $ ER or $ ER or $Allocate ERs or ﬁnance from sale of
ERs to projects (or subnational units)
ERs ERs ERsX% FREL Z% FREL Y% FRELFigure 9  The Key Difference between the Centralized and Decentralized Nested Models 
While this difference may appear to be a simple one, it 
has significant implications. For example:
·	 Responsibility for generating ERs . Both 
approaches require actions by both state and 
nonstate stakeholders in order to address 
deforestation and generate ERs. Both require 
the implementation of policies and measures to 
address the drivers and legal frameworks that 
support catalyzation of on-the-ground activities. 
However, in the decentralized  nested model there is a clearer link between successful implementation 
of on-the-ground activities and the achievement of 
results.  This creates a clearer risk-reward incentive 
for projects, since they are driven by the potential 
for future carbon revenues. 
·	 Access to finance . In the centralized system, 
the government controls and allocates all RBF 
or carbon finance. This enables it to ensure that 
sufficient funds are available for the support of 
governance reform and government policies, for 