DOCUMENTO: Nesting-of-REDD-Initiatives-Manual-for-Policymakers (1)
PARTE 3 de 7
Páginas 31 a 45
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 31 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers22
example by claiming a share of the emission 
reductions (ERs) that are generated by projects. 
Under this model, projects (or subnational 
jurisdictions) receive a portion of the share of the 
ERs or revenues generated at the national scale. 
In a decentralized model, the government can 
preassign a baseline to projects, but after that 
the projects are free to generate, issue, and sell 
their project ERs, and the government does not 
participate in these transactions. However, the 
credits issued by projects need to be reported to 
the national database or government registry, 
and regulations defined by the country apply. 
Because under this model projects are more 
autonomous, it is more attractive to private 
sector carbon-related investment, since risks are 
contained at the project scale. (See Section 3.3 
for more information on private sector carbon 
finance.)
·	 Risk profiles . In the centralized model, the 
government has greater control over ER 
transactions, RBF, and carbon finance. Therefore, 
if a government is concerned about projects “overselling” credits—for example, beyond the 
level of national performance—the centralized 
model helps to avoid this eventuality. The 
projects bear the greater risk, since they 
may put in the effort to achieve ERs, but not 
receive the full reward for their effort if there is 
underperformance across the country. The risk 
to the government is that this may reduce the 
incentive for private carbon-related investment. 
In the decentralized model, the risk for the 
government is that the projects may sell more ERs 
than the national performance.  
Regarding the project crediting (only) model, it is 
worth noting that the same rules may be applied to 
projects as in the decentralized-nested model—with 
the only difference being that the government is not 
seeking payment or crediting at the jurisdictional 
scale. In this model, a government may still decide 
to adopt requirements for projects in order to 
reduce the risk of environmental integrity or to 
promote consistency of reported ERs with national 
reporting. 


--- PÁGINA 32 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers23
T able 6.  Key Differences Among REDD+ Implementation Models
Jurisdictional 
ER program 
(only) with 
benefit sharingCentralized Nested 
ModelDecentralized Nested 
ModelProject Crediting 
(only), No 
Jurisdictional ER 
Program 
REDD+ strategy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Measurement, Recording, Verification (MRV)
Jurisdictional FREL Yes Yes Yes No
Project level baseline and MRV No Yes Yes Yes
Allocation of ERs to activities 
and projectsNo Yes No No
Allocation of the FREL to 
activities and projects No Yes Yes Optional
Incentives to projects via…Benefit-sharing 
arrangementsSharing of 
jurisdictional ERs (or $ 
from them)Ability to independently 
generate ERsAbility to 
independently generate 
ERs
Legal 
Right to transfer ER with 
nonstate actorsOnly government 
transfers 
(jurisdictional) 
ERsGovernment transfers 
jurisdictional ERs, 
projects may transfer 
ERs (if received rather 
than share of $)Government transfers 
jurisdictional ERs, 
projects transfer project 
ERsOnly projects transfer  
ERs
Recognition of carbon rights 
of via…Benefit-sharing 
arrangementsSharing of ERs or $Right to engage in 
projects that generate 
ERsRight to engage in 
projects that generate 
ERs
Benefit Sharing
Benefit-sharing approach with 
projectsBy government, 
focused on 
sharing of $ 
(based on non-ER 
metrics)By government, 
focused on sharing 
of ERs or $ (based on 
GHG performance)Projects generate and 
monetize ERs through 
FREL allocation (based 
on GHG performance), 
and share locallyLocal actors generate 
and monetize ERs 
(based on GHG 
performance), and 
share locally
Access to benefits by local 
communities and indigenous 
people via…Benefit sharing 
arrangements 
of jurisdictional 
programBenefit sharing 
arrangements of 
jurisdictional program 
or projectsBenefit sharing 
arrangements of 
jurisdictional program, 
direct participation or as 
beneficiaries of benefit 
sharing-arrangements of  
projectsDirect participation 
as project proponents 
or benefit sharing 
arrangements of 
projects
Right to transfer ER with 
nonstate actorsOnly government 
transfers 
(jurisdictional) 
ERsGovernment transfers 
jurisdictional ERs, 
projects may transfer 
ERs (if received rather 
than share of $)Government transfers 
jurisdictional ERs, 
projects transfer project 
ERsOnly projects transfer  
ERs
Sale of ERs support national 
government for, for example, 
institutional strengtheningYesYes, if there are ERs 
outside the project 
areasYes, if there are ERs 
outside the project areasNo
Risk Management
Government bears the 
performance risks of projectsNot applicable No Yes No
projects bear the performance 
risk of the governmentNot applicable Yes No No

--- PÁGINA 33 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers24
2.6 The Reality:  Mixed Approaches
Governments should opt for a system that responds 
to their unique national circumstances; it may not 
necessarily fall neatly into any particular nesting or 
REDD+ model.  They may also start with one approach 
and evolve over time to another model. Almost all 
countries will choose to combine national policies with 
the empowerment of local actors, but they can choose 
different ways of doing so. Their choices will depend 
on the drivers of deforestation, the accessibility of 
various regions within the country, and the target 
populations involved. Countries may therefore 
simultaneously operate several models, or create their 
own “hybrid” approach  that best meets their national 
circumstances, as illustrated in the examples below 
(See Figure 10 , Figure 11 , Figure 12 ).
Example A:  The government chooses to develop a 
national ER program, and in its benefit-sharing 
system provides some constituents with non-
performance-based funding, while others may receive 
rewards in the form of either financing or ERs, based 
on GHG performance. 
In this example, the country is combining the 
jurisdictional only and centralized nested models. 
Some actors within the country may respond better 
to the provision of nonmarket finance—for example, 
local communities or Indigenous people. Others, such 
as private sector actors, may prefer to be rewarded 
based on their GHG performance.
Example B:  The government wishes to access 
nonmarket REDD+ results-based payments, 
participate in Article 6 transactions, and allow 
projects to participate in voluntary markets, as 
illustrated in Figure 11. (See Section 3.4 for more on 
Article 6.)
Figure 10. Hybrid Scenario A
Crediting or RBP at national level
Non-market payment
for performance at
national scaleArt 6
projectsREDD+
projectREDD+
projectREDD+
projectInternational carbon ﬁnance from
companies through voluntary marketsFigure 11. Hybrid Scenario B
Crediting or RBP at national level
Non-market payment
for performance at
national scaleArt 6
projectsREDD+
projectREDD+
projectREDD+
projectInternational carbon ﬁnance from
companies through voluntary markets
In this example, the country may combine the 
decentralized and centralized nested models. 
·	 Under voluntary crediting, the country may 
choose to allocate the reference level (see 
Section 4), and assign baselines to projects in 
order to promote equity among projects, drive 
projects to high-risk areas, and align MRV with 
the national GHG accounting systems; but it 
may also allow projects to engage in voluntary 
markets based on their performance against 
the assigned baselines.
·	 For projects that are under Article 6 of the 
Paris Agreement, the country may apply 
the centralized nested approach, in which 
the government allows projects to sell a 
given volume, allocated from the national 
performance, of credits with CAs.
Example C:   The country wishes to access nonmarket 
REDD+ results-based payments, and allow projects to 
participate in voluntary markets. It participates in a 
donor-funded program (for example, the FCPF Carbon 
Fund, BioCF-ISFL, or REDD Early Movers), and has also 
developed a domestic carbon market where REDD+ 
credits are eligible.Figure 10. Hybrid Scenario A

--- PÁGINA 34 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers25
In this example, a country may again combine several 
models:
·	 For nonmarket results-based payments, it 
may distribute the payments to some local 
actors, such as vulnerable groups that require 
additional financing to support sustainable 
development, and to others based on their 
GHG performance.
·	 For voluntary crediting, it may allocate the 
forest reference emission levels (FRELs), but 
allow projects to engage directly in voluntary 
markets.  
·	 For domestic crediting, there is a local 
standard that is more flexible. Local 
companies are encouraged to invest in 
the country’s ecosystem protection or 
restoration; there is no effort to align MRV 
with the national system, although projects 
are regulated to the extent that they must 
apply minimum safeguards.
As illustrated in these examples, it is important to 
understand the available sources of finance and 
to develop a strategy to access and optimize such 
finance . For example, while GCF offers nonmarket 
REDD+ payments to any developing country, most 
of them will need to find an accredited entity that 
is willing to put forward a funding proposal on their 
behalf, which is a cumbersome process. Other sources 
of financing (for example, the FCPF Carbon Fund, 
BioCF, and bilateral deals) are only available to a 
limited number of countries. Similarly, international 
compliance markets (for example, Article 6.2 
transactions) require a country-to-country agreement. 
Voluntary market buyers may also have requirements 
or preferences that tend to favor some countries over others. And in some countries there may be local 
companies that are interested in buying credits.
Another critical consideration when determining the 
scale and levels of crediting is ownership of the land 
and resources, and consequent claims to participate 
in REDD+ within a country . Countries often define 
forest carbon rights based on the land tenure 
framework of the country: this is discussed in Section 
4.4. Countries where governments control all of the 
forest land and resources may favor the centralized 
management of carbon rights, while those with diverse 
forest ownership and land management regimes may 
tend to respect the right of landowners to engage in 
carbon projects. Benefit- sharing arrangements should 
consider both legal and customary rights. 
Finally, it is useful for a country to have a position 
on whether, and if so how, carbon finance will play 
a role in the country’s achievement of its NDC . As of 
the time of this report, there remain questions about 
the role of the voluntary market and its relationship 
to a country’s accounting of its NDC (including 
corresponding adjustments). By contrast, the carbon 
offsetting and reduction scheme for international 
aviation (CORSIA) has approved provisions that 
require a corresponding adjustment. Furthermore, a 
country’s target—and its conditional vs. unconditional 
pledge—may be a factor in the overall design of the 
nested system that is chosen by the government.Figure 12  Hybrid Scenario C
Non-market payment for performance
at national scale from GCFInternational carbon ﬁnance from companies
through voluntary markets
Local company buys credits
(voluntary or compliance market)cook stove
projectForest country
REDD+
projectREDD+
projectREDD+
project

--- PÁGINA 35 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers26
The human, institutional, and financial capacities of 
a country are essential considerations when planning 
the design of a nested system. While nesting might be 
technically challenging, a governmental ER program 
requires stronger implementation capacity (see Part 
III, on implementation). There are also a variety of 
REDD+ results-based finance (RBF) opportunities—
from nonmarket to market-based mechanisms, and 
from voluntary to compliance markets. In addition, 
there is growing interest in how to mobilize private 
sector finance for REDD+, as well as increasing 
interest from companies that are engaged in nature-
based solutions. As countries increasingly consider 
how to access REDD+ RBF, many are also struggling 
to understand how these may impact their obligations 
under the Paris Agreement. These aspects are focused 
on in the sections below. 3.1 Capacity Constraints
While policy objectives and the national legal and 
policy context should be the primary factors guiding 
the design of the nested systems, other issues may 
limit the options countries have, particularly in the 
near term. For example, one consideration is the 
ability to measure and monitor GHGs from forests 
or land use. Many carbon standards require a level of 
accuracy in the estimation of emissions (or removals), 
or take a deduction for uncertainty. Institutional 
and technical capacity varies significantly within 
and among countries; some countries may not be 
able to accurately measure and report the GHG 
emissions and removals from their forest resources. 
Building technical capacity is a prerequisite for the 
development of a nested system—as well as the ability 
to operationalize it; therefore it requires a level of 
commitment from countries (Box 4). 3. CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE DESIGN OF NESTED SYSTEMS


--- PÁGINA 36 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers27
Box 4 Emerging Types of  
Nested Systems 
Countries have a variety of different systems, 
based on a range of factors. When governments 
follow a Jurisdictional ER Program (only) with 
Benefit Sharing, the projects within such countries 
may be promised a portion of the jurisdictional 
performance-based payment, but will not be allowed 
to issue and sell carbon credits on their own. In 
Ecuador, for example, only the government has the 
power to monetize carbon rights, and environmental 
services, including carbon, are not available for 
appropriation by any entity. Thus, carbon cannot be 
sold or traded in markets, although the government 
can receive payment for GHG performance. In this 
case, environmental benefits are considered a public 
good, and the government is the only entity that can 
ensure that the benefits are enjoyed collectively, or 
shared among citizens. 
A number of approaches are also being developed 
in which governments (for example, Cambodia and 
Colombia) develop frameworks to regulate particular 
aspects of project-based crediting to facilitate 
project activities for accessing carbon finance. 
The core of such frameworks often relates to the setting of baselines and/or the alignment of project 
monitoring with national MRV systems. One of the 
motivations for using this approach is the possibility 
of attracting private finance to protect and enhance 
forest resources.
Hybrid approaches are also emerging. For example, 
a couple of countries (Guatemala, Peru) are receiving 
RBF at the national scale while also respecting the 
carbon rights of landowners. In such cases, the 
country allows the owners with carbon rights to “opt 
in” to the national carbon finance system, by signing 
agreements that give the government the authority 
to commercialize and sell ERs on their behalf.
Given the complexities that arise in developing 
nested systems, some countries are taking a step-
by-step approach. They may start with a simpler 
approach, with the intent of phasing in a more 
sophisticated design over time. For example, an early 
approach may not achieve full MRV consistency, but 
may simply improve alignment in GHG estimation 
at various scales. Alternatively, a country may start 
by building a decentralized system, largely in order 
to enable voluntary crediting that is aligned with 
national GHG measurement systems, but has the 
ultimate goal of engaging in national results-based 
payments, and/or Article 6 transactions. 


--- PÁGINA 37 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers28
3.2 Landscape of REDD+ Results-Based 
Finance 
For many countries, the desire to develop a nested 
system is motivated by a desire to access multiple 
streams of REDD+ RBF, subject to specific rules and 
procedures for accessing funds. These include:
·	 Nonmarket finance: Finance is linked to ERs. 
However, there is no requirement to transfer the 
rights to ERs, no issuance of a tradable carbon 
credit, and no need for a GHG transaction registry. 
Some nonmarket instruments have specific 
requirements; for example, the Green Climate Fund 
(GCF) tries to avoid “double payment” of ERs, and 
requires countries to register REDD+ results in the 
Lima REDD+ Information Hub.16
·	 Voluntary markets: Carbon credits are generated 
and issued under the rules of voluntary carbon 
standards, and tradable units are tracked 
in registries. The market is largely driven by 
companies with self-imposed targets.
16  https:/ /www.greenclimate.fund/document/terms-reference-pilot-programme-redd-results-basedpayments·	 Domestic compliance markets: Markets are 
created by governments and linked to regulatory 
systems such as emissions trading schemes or 
carbon taxes. ERs are generated or recognized 
under the rules defined by national legislation. 
Tradable units are tracked in registries. 
·	 Internationally regulated markets: Markets are 
created by governments through multilateral 
fora, such as UNFCCC, or the International Civil 
Aviation Organization (ICAO). ERs are tracked 
in linked carbon registries. Under the Paris 
Agreement, ER transactions require a country to 
make a “corresponding adjustment” in reporting 
their achievement of nationally determined 
contributions (NDCs).
T able 7  provides examples of different types of RBF; 
the scales at which they reward GHG performance; 
who pays for such performance; and the rules that are 
applied to measuring it. 
  


--- PÁGINA 38 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers29
T able 7  The Landscape of REDD+ Results-Based Finance17
Type of 
REDD+ 
RBFScale Who pays for 
performanceWho sets the rules, and examples
Nonmarket National or 
subnationalDonor 
governmentsDonor governments set the rules, often in agreement with developing 
countries:
• GCF: Use of a “scorecard,” approved by GCF Board
• REDD Early Movers (REM) /bilateral: Defined by donor government(s) 
in partnership with the country
• Amazon Fund: Defined by the Brazilian government
Voluntary 
marketProject Companies 
(voluntary 
targets)Rules may be developed by governments or nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs). There are two types of voluntary markets:
• Domestic: Standards specific to the host country (for example, the 
Thai VER standard) 
• International: Standards apply across countries and regions (Verified 
Carbon Standard (VCS), FCPF C arbon Fund)
Domestic 
compliance 
marketProject Companies 
(obligations under 
law)Rules are set by government regulators, for example:
• Chinese certified emissions reductions 
• Offsets linked to Colombia’s carbon tax
• Offsets linked to South Africa’s carbon tax
International 
regulated 
marketsProject or 
larger-scale 
programsGovernments or 
companiesRequirements are set by an international body such as
•  CORSIA. Eligible programs include:
• Architecture for REDD+ Transactions (ART)
• Verra’s Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+ (JNR)
• FCPF Carbon Fund (conditionally eligible; needs to meet additional 
requirements to be fully eligible)
Paris Agreement “internationally transferred mitigation outcomes” 
(ITMOs), including:
• Article 6.2 transactions, defined bilaterally between countries
• Article 6.4 transactions, admi nistered by UNFCCC 
17   The FCPF Carbon Fund requires the issuance of tradeable FCPF units, which may or may not be used for offsetting purposes. For instance, Carbon Fund Tranche B buyers retransfer the ERs 
to the country to be used for NDC purposes (example of a nonmarket mechanism), while Tranche A buyers may use the ERs for other purposes, and countries may sell remaining FCPF units on 
the market. It is important to note that for programs that are 
eligible to access both nonmarket and market 
mechanisms, financing from different sources can 
overlap.  Nationally and internationally regulated 
markets can be linked; for example, the EU Emission 
Trading System and the markets created under the 
Kyoto Protocol are linked. In addition, there may be 
overlapping of bilateral or multilateral RBF programs, 
or different voluntary carbon standards. The multitude of available programs can create 
challenges for countries that wish to access or enable 
funding at various scales . For example, countries 
participating in nonmarket, national-level REDD+ RBF 
through GCF or REM Early Movers are likely to use 
different methodologies to measure GHG performance 
(and receive payments) than voluntary projects are. 
The issues related to GHG measurement mismatches 
are covered in Part II Section 4.  

--- PÁGINA 39 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers30
3.3 Role of the Private Sector in  
REDD+ Markets
The Warsaw Framework for REDD+ states that 
financing for REDD+ should come from both public 
and private sources.  T o date, most REDD+ RBF 
has been offered by donor governments through 
multilateral funds (the FCPF Carbon Fund, BioCF-
ISFL, GCF), and bilateral approaches such as REDD 
Early Movers (REM), or government-to-government 
agreements. All such funds provide payment for 
performance at the national (or subnational) scale.
Governments may consider multiple approaches 
to mobilizing private sector finance for REDD+ 
implementation, ranging from fiscal incentives 
to carbon finance . This applies to all REDD+ 
implementation models.
18  T askforce on Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets, January 2021 . Found at: https:/ /www.iif.com/tsvcmMore recently, the private sector is increasing 
its engagement in nature-based certified ERs.  
Previously, project developers in the private 
sector played a small role but had an earlier start, 
implementing forest carbon projects at the local level. 
They have sometimes been funded by private investors 
or companies, through the purchase of credits 
generated by such projects; however, the funding was 
minimal compared to the amounts provided by donor 
governments. Many companies have recently shown 
interest in using nature-based offsets to achieve their 
climate mitigation targets. In 2019, the issuances 
of voluntary forest carbon credits more than tripled 
compared to the annual volumes from 2010-15, as 
shown in Figure 13). Recent research18 suggests that 
the voluntary market will continue to grow, potentially 
exceeding donor-based finance for REDD+. 
Figure 13  Verified Carbon Unit (VCU) Issuances from 2010 to 2019 
Source: VCS Project Database, accessed October 202080,000,000
70,000,000
60,000,000
50,000,000
40,000,000
30,000,000
20,000,000
10,000,000
-
VCUs issued (tCO2)
2010
Avoided deforestation (or degradation)                Reforestation                Improved forest management2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019

--- PÁGINA 40 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers31
It is useful to understand the various types of private 
sector actors that are involved in REDD+ carbon 
markets . Project developers could be companies 
engaged in supporting mitigation activities to 
generate a return. By contrast, companies with 
a carbon footprint and climate targets might be 
either (i) offtakers or buyers of carbon credits; or (ii) 
investors in mitigation activities who have plans to 
receive credits, or revenue from their investment. 
Generally, private entities are more comfortable 
investing in projects than in jurisdictional programs. 
For them, the risks are easier to manage than the risks 
encountered in jurisdictional programs.
The increasing participation of the private sector 
in REDD+ markets will also drive the availability 
of upfront investment finance needed for the 
implementation of mitigation activities.   This could 
be leveraged by countries to gain access to additional 
sources of upfront investment finance. Investors 
need to see a clear link between the activity they are 
investing in and the ERs they would receive; this is one 
reason why there might be more interest in investing 
in project-level interventions, where attribution 
of ERs is easier. Recent transactions have shown 
that prospective buyers of REDD+ credits are also 
interested in investing in mitigation activities that 
generate other revenue besides carbon.
REDD+ countries are increasingly interested in 
combining donor government funding with private 
sector investment at the project level . In a few 
instances, countries may have carbon credits at 
the jurisdictional level, and may still be able to find 
private and public sector buyers, depending on the 
risks they present. But for many countries, meeting 
the requirements of carbon market standards at 
the national scale may be challenging—for example, 
regarding issues related to carbon rights, as well as 
the MRV stringency required by markets. Thus, due to 
capacity constraints, access to private sector finance 
is unlikely at the jurisdictional scale—at least in the 
near term—for some countries. 
3.4 The Paris Agreement: Nationally 
Determined Contributions and Article 6
The Paris Agreement opens the possibility of linking 
REDD+ finance to the transfer of ERs.  Such transfers 
can either be limited to government-to-government 
transactions, or linked to carbon markets. 
19  For more detail see: Streck, Howard, Rajoni. 2017 . Options for Enhancing REDD+ under Art. 6 of the Paris Agreement.  
20  Decision 1/CP. 21, para. 36. This is specified in the context of Article 6.2. However, Article 6.5 sets a similar requirement for the Article 6.4 mechanism. Countries’ views differ on whether 
transfers originating under Articles 6.2 and 6.4 should be subject to the same set of accounting rules. 
21  https:/ /www.jcm.go.jp/kh-jp/methodologies/ 97
22  https:/ /www.mitsui.com/jp/en/topics/ 11241 _1225795 /2018 .html
23  http:/ /www.tumringredd.org/At the same time, the Agreement also brings new 
challenges, especially because developing countries 
are now expected to reduce, measure, and report 
ERs–an obligation that was previously held only by 
developed countries. This adds a layer of complexity 
in implementing REDD+, not only because ERs are now 
an asset of considerable value for both developing 
and developed countries, but also because countries 
have an obligation to ensure that the reductions are 
not counted toward multiple nationally determined 
contributions NDCs.19 
For REDD+, carbon market finance can supplement 
the financing options envisioned in the Warsaw 
Framework.  Article 6 of the Paris Agreement 
states that countries may transfer “internationally 
transferred mitigation outcomes (ITMOs) to allow 
for ambition in their mitigation and adaptation 
actions” (Art. 6.1, Paris Agreement). ITMOs must be 
authorized by participating countries (that is, parties 
to the Paris Agreement), and should avoid “double 
counting, ” meaning that an ER can only be used by 
one party to demonstrate achievement of its NDC. 
When in the context of REDD+ ERs are transacted 
under Article 6.2 or 6.4, a corresponding adjustment 
is required. Guidance on cooperative approaches, 
including guidance regarding accounting and reporting 
processes, is being negotiated under Article 6, and 
guidance on the tracking of ERs is being negotiated 
under Article 13.20 
If a government wishes to engage in Article 6 
transactions by selling forest carbon credits, it 
must consider how such transactions will affect 
the achievement of its NDC , since any credits 
transferred to another country must be deducted 
from its own national accounts through the so-called 
“corresponding adjustments. ” These provisions are 
expected to align with other international market 
mechanisms, such as ICAO’s CORSIA.
Currently there are few Article 6 pilots in the forest 
sector . Those that exist are under Article 6.2 of the 
Paris Agreement, which states that parties may define 
the conditions under which ITMOs are authorized. 
Currently all such pilots in the forest sector are at the 
project scale. Japan’s joint crediting mechanism (JCM) 
approved its first REDD+ methodology21 early in 2020, 
in an agreement between Japan and Cambodia. Mitsui 
is funding a pilot REDD+ project that uses the JCM 
REDD+ methodology.22 Korea is also funding several 
REDD+ projects.23 

--- PÁGINA 41 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers32
The decision of a country to participate--or not 
to participate--in Article 6 transactions is closely 
linked to its NDC accounting and reporting.  The Paris 
Agreement requires that all of its parties submit NDCs 
and periodically report on progress made toward 
their achievement. Countries with significant forest-
related emissions generally include such emissions 
within their NDCs. For countries that rely on REDD+ to 
meet their NDCs, the potential transfer of ERs under 
Article 6 must be carefully considered. These countries 
may only want to transfer ITMOs and make the 
corresponding adjustments if they feel comfortable 
that the partnership with another government (or 
international entity) will generate more ERs than the 
country is being asked to transfer, or if the country 
expects to meet its NDC without relying on forest 
sector ERs.
There is currently no agreement on the requirement 
for corresponding adjustments for transactions 
performed outside of Article 6 . International offset 
compliance initiatives such as CORSIA require a 
corresponding adjustment for carbon units used by 
airlines in order to meet their compliance obligations 
under the scheme. By contrast, some voluntary carbon 
standards foresee24 the issuance of ERs under their 
standards with or without corresponding adjustments, 
24  https:/ /verra.org/wp-content/uploads/ 08/2020 /Proposal-for-Scaling-Voluntary-Carbon-Markets-and-Avoiding-Double-Counting.pdf  and https:/ /www.goldstandard.org/sites/default/files/
documents/gs_guidance_correspondingadjustments_feb 2021 .pdf depending on the final use of the ERs. The Paris 
Agreement currently does not specify requirements for 
contexts in which nonstate actors engage in markets 
voluntarily. 
Countries that host REDD+ projects may decide 
whether, and if so how, they will allow transactions 
that come with corresponding adjustments, as 
well as whether and how they should claim ERs 
from REDD+ for their NDCs. In the case where a 
country decides to allow transactions that come with 
corresponding adjustments for either projects or 
programs, capacities are needed in order to include 
such transactions in a national transaction registry 
(see Part III Section 12 ). 
Countries should keep in mind the evolving landscape 
around Article 6, corresponding adjustments, and 
the consideration of these aspects by voluntary 
carbon market players. Decisions on whether to 
move forward with any of the models could create 
constraints and limitations in the future. However, 
there is also a benefit in immediately accessing 
available sources of finance. Countries may therefore 
wish to consider creating flexible frameworks that will 
be able to consider new realities and will allow easy 
transition from model to model.


--- PÁGINA 42 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers33
This part provides information on the issues that 
should be considered in the development of the 
nesting models presented in Part I. 
4. CARBON ACCOUNTING AND MRV
In this section, we describe the most relevant 
elements of measurement, reporting, and verification 
(MRV) that are likely to be addressed by countries 
that are implementing REDD+ activities at multiple 
scales.  The setup and requirements of an MRV system 
depend to a great extent on the model or approach the 
country will adopt, as well as the various standards 
that projects or jurisdictions intend to use in order to 
access carbon finance. Some of the relevant aspects 
include:
·	Aligning ER claims from the project to the national 
scale through baseline setting;
·	Deciding on the scope for nesting: that is, which 
REDD+ activities, pools, and gases should be 
included;
·	Aligning definitions, data, and methods for 
estimating emissions.
4.1 Aligning Baselines and ER Claims 
Many countries face a significant mismatch between 
their project-level and national-scale claims of 
REDD+ related GHG performance (ER claims).  The 
mismatch in ER claims of jurisdictions and carbon 
projects is more pronounced for reducing emissions 
by deforestation (REDD) or avoided deforestation 
(AD) projects. In many instances, this mismatch is 
the main reason for countries to consider nested 
systems.  The reasons for such mismatching are 
explained by differences in scope as well as definitions 
and methodological approaches.  
The most significant reason for mismatches is the 
25  Chagas et al.  2020. A Close Look at the Quality of REDD+ Carbon Credits. https:/ /www.climatefocus.com/publications/close-look-quality-redd-carbon-credits
26  Thales, A. P. West, Jan Börner, Erin O. Sills, Andreas Kontoleon. 2020. Overstated Carbon Emission Reductions from Voluntary REDD+ Projects in the Brazilian Amazon . Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences, Sep 2020. 117 (39) 24188-94; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2004334117
27  R. D. Yanai et al.  2020. “Improving Uncertainty in Forest Carbon Accounting for REDD+ Mitigation Efforts. ”  Environ. Res. Lett. 15 124002 ( https:/ /iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/
abb96f ); Sandker et al (2021), The importance of high-quality data for REDD+ monitoring and reporting. Forests 2021, 12(`), 99. (https:/ /www.mdpi.com/1999-4907/12/1/99/htm)
28  Espejo, Andres B.; Becerra-Leal, Maria C.; Aguilar-Amuchastegui, Naikoa. 2020 . "Comparing the Environmental Integrity of Emission Reductions from REDD Programs with Renewable Energy 
Projects" Forests 11 (12): 1360. https:/ /doi.org/10.3390/f11121360
29 Some standards distinguish between different types of deforestation, for example, planned and unplanned, as described in this section. More information is available at: https:/ /www.unredd.net/
knowledge/glossary.htmlsetting of baselines and forest reference emissions 
levels (FRELs) . Baselines form the basis for estimating 
ERs, and in the case of REDD+, the methodologies 
for setting baselines can differ significantly among 
projects and national jurisdictional programs. This 
means that a “ton” of emission reduction measured by 
a project may not be the same as a ton estimated in a 
national/subnational jurisdictional program. In several 
cases project baselines have been overestimated due 
to the selection of reference areas25 that could lead 
to a significant over-reporting of ERs.26 On the other 
hand, national reference levels often have significant 
uncertainties;27 but using conservative approaches for 
establishing the reference levels reduces the risk of 
overestimation of ERs.28 
Countries often establish national FRELs to meet 
the requirements of results-based finance (RBF) 
programs, which may also be harmonized with 
nationally determined contribution (NDC) baselines . 
For example, the methodological framework of the 
Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF), and the 
Green Climate Fund (GCF)’s REDD+ Results-Based 
Payments Pilot Programme require the FREL to 
be based on average emissions during a historical 
reference period. Exceptions apply when a country 
has a high percentage of land with high forest and low 
but rising deforestation (HFLD). The use of average 
emissions is considered a proxy for “business as usual” 
emissions since, at larger scales, near-term historical 
emissions can be a good predictor of near-term future 
emissions. 
Projects set their performance benchmarks (that 
is, their baselines) by applying methodologies that 
are approved by the carbon standard that is used to 
generate carbon credits.  There are two basic forest 
carbon project types: those for planned, and those 
for unplanned deforestation.29  In both cases, the 
PART II NESTING 
ELEMENTS

--- PÁGINA 43 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers34
project accounting area consists of areas of forest 
that exist at the start of the project. T o set baselines 
for unplanned deforestation , an area that is subject 
to similar risks of deforestation is identified as a 
reference area, and the trends observed there are 
used as a proxy of what would be likely to happen in 
the project area in the absence of project activities. 
For planned deforestation , the project baselines that 
are set are the emissions that are expected relative 
to the development of a specific human activity, such 
as the construction of a road, the clearing of a land 
concession, or some other documented, planned land-
use change. 
The adoption of a specific nesting model will define 
how countries address baseline alignment:
·	In a model where only the government is seeking 
payment for ERs  at the jurisdictional scale, the 
alignment of ER claims is irrelevant.
·	In a centralized nested  model, project claims 
to ERs are based on GHG performance but are 
capped, since they are allocated a portion of the 
national ERs; in this instance, the government may 
wish to align the project baselines for reasons of 
fairness (for example, to inform allocations), or 
to ensure that projects contribute to the national 
GHG performance accounting.
·	Alignment is most critical in a decentralized 
nested  model, where multiple levels of crediting 
may be occurring simultaneously.
·	In the case where only projects are seeking 
payment for ERs , the government may have an 
interest in aligning project accounting in order 
to ensure that projects are contributing to the 
national GHG performance by providing guidance 
on GHG measurement methodologies.
There are several ways to promote alignment in the 
setting of baselines 
One approach is to require conformity in how the 
baselines are set. Projects may have a variety 
of methods available; by limiting the number of 
methodologies that can be used (noting that more 
than one method may be required given different 
drivers, for example in planned and unplanned 
deforestation), and/or constraining how they are 
applied (through model inputs and data sources), the 
government can attempt to minimize the amount of 
variation in how project baselines are set. 
Another approach that can be used for RED (avoided 
deforestation) projects is to  allocate the higher-scale FREL to smaller-scale areas  such as subnational 
units, or projects. This method ensures that the 
“sum of the parts” (that is, the project or subnational 
baselines) never exceeds the whole (the national FREL). 
Ideally, project baselines should represent business-
as-usual emissions; in other words, allocations to 
specific sites should be based on the current level 
of threat and emissions factors (EFs) to ensure that 
carbon credits represent actual additional ERs. High-
risk areas (for example, forests at a high threat of 
loss) should receive a larger allocation, and areas of 
low risk a smaller allocation per unit area. Forests that 
are not being threatened (for example, forests that are 
inaccessible, or are not suitable for agriculture or other 
conversion activities) would not receive any allocation 
of the FREL. 
Finally, a government may simply assign a maximum 
crediting level to each project.  This approach may be 
relevant where data used at the national level is not 
“fit for purpose” for project-scale crediting. Setting 
such caps on projects limits the volume of credits each 
project can generate. This approach may be  simpler 
than allocating a FREL, but may also result in project-
scale ERs that are not comparable to the national GHG 
accounting.


--- PÁGINA 44 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers35
T able 8. Options for Promoting Alignment in Baseline Setting 
Approach Benefits Risks Examples
Promote conformity on 
baseline and monitoring 
methodologies Simple, and requires setting rules for 
baseline setting. The project baselines 
are defined locally and may be more 
accurate as a result.May reduce, but likely not 
eliminate, mismatches in 
claimed GHG performanceAustralia’s Emission 
Reduction Fund
Set project baselines by 
allocating the FREL Ensures that project baselines do not 
exceed the jurisdictional baseline; 
provides the strongest alignment 
between scales.T echnically challenging. 
Project baselines are 
determined by national 
methodology.VCS JNR
Peru
Guatemala
Set maximum crediting 
level for projects Does not require granular data at the 
national level; promotes alignment by 
setting an envelope for performance (and 
by capping projects).Project baselines are not 
aligned, and may result in 
the issuance of credits that 
are not comparable.Colombia’s 
Resolution 1447
4.2 Deciding the Scope of Nesting
One fundamental decision that a country will need to 
make is which activities, pools, and gases to include 
in a nested system.  This may lead to fewer activities 
being included in a nested system than in a system 
that is measured and monitored by the national forest 
monitoring system (NFMS), since nesting relates to 
aligning project (or subnational) MRV systems with the 
national accounting system and the NFMS. 
There are several things to consider in making such a 
decision. One is practical: the lack of quality data will 
make some activities, pools, and gases too challenging 
to nest. The other is related to the need for nesting: 
Are there already forest carbon projects in the 
country? Do they have large mismatches in the way 
GHGs, or ERs are estimated? Under UNFCCC, countries are encouraged to report 
on as many categories as possible in their national 
GHG inventories, particularly in places where 
emissions are significant.  The Paris Agreement also 
encourages comprehensive target setting within 
NDCs. In the case of REDD+, many countries submit 
FRELs in order to access results-based payments. For 
this reason, countries sometimes narrow the scope of 
the FREL either by selecting a subnational area, or by 
reducing the number of activities to be included. The 
choice of scope (or coverage) in a FREL is often related 
to the requirements of the funding instrument from 
which a country is seeking results-based payments. 
Various contexts for the reporting and accounting of 
GHGs under UNFCCC are summarized in T able 9.
T able 9 Scope of Coverage of Forest-Related Fluxes in GHG Inventories, NDCs, and FRELs30
 Scope of Forest Fluxes Practical Limitations
GHG inventory Anthropogenic emissions and removals National capacities, or lack of scientific methods, may limit full 
reporting of forest fluxes.
NDC Anthropogenic emissions/removals 
(based on GHG inventories)In addition to the above limitations, some NDCs are narrower 
than the scope of coverage in the national GHG inventory, or are 
currently unclear.
REDD+ 
reference level 
(FREL)Significant* anthropogenic forest-
related emissions/removalsCountries often choose only the most significant emissions 
(for example, deforestation); many exclude degradation and 
regrowth, and some FRELs are subnational in scale.
*COP decision 13/CP.19 states that countries  should not omit significant fluxes, but it does not define “significant. ”
30  From Lee, D. and Sanz, M.J. 2017.  “UNFCCC Accounting for Forests: What’s In and What’s Out of NDCs and REDD+. ” https:/ /www.climateandlandusealliance.org/reports/forests-ndcs-redd/  

--- PÁGINA 45 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers36
As Figure 13  (in Section 3.3) shows, the vast majority of forest carbon credits issued in the marketplace 
are from either from AD,  or RED. In general, projects that generate carbon credits based on GHG removals 
from afforestation/reforestation (AR), or improved forest management (IFM) activities pose fewer accounting 
challenges than RED. Therefore, a country may want to start by building a nested system that is focused on RED. 
T able 10  provides additional elements a country may want to consider when designing a nested system.
T able 10  Selecting the Carbon Accounting Scope for Nesting
Scope Consideration
Activities In most cases,  deforestation  will be a priority for nesting, particularly if there are significant emissions 
from forest loss at the national scale and this is the focus of carbon projects. Forest degradation  should be 
included where sufficiently robust data exists. Forest management, conservation, and enhanced removals 
(the “plus” in REDD+) have less significance  in a nested system, since few developing countries are able to 
measure removals at the national scale;31 the volume of ERs (or removals) generated by projects tends to be 
small; and mismatches between existing projects and national accounting tend to be less significant.32
Pools Aboveground biomass  will always be a significant pool and therefore should be included in a nested system. 
The belowground biomass  pool is also often included since it can be calculated and reported using Inter -
governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) default values.33 The inclusion of other carbon pools—such 
as soil carbon, litter, dead wood, or harvested wood products—is likely limited by the robustness of national 
data.
Gases Similar to the inclusion of specific pools, as the predominant greenhouse gas for all forest activities, CO2 will 
always be included in the nested system, but countries may find it challenging to include additional gases 
(such as N2O or CH4), due to the inability to robustly measure these gases at the national scale.
31  Lee, D., Skutsch, M. and Sandker, M. 2018.  “Challenges with Measurement and Accounting of the Plus in REDD+. ” https:/ /www.climateandlandusealliance.org/reports/plus-in-redd/
32  Chagas et al, 2020. “A Close Look at the Quality of REDD+ Carbon Credits. ” https:/ /www.climatefocus.com/publications/close-look-quality-redd-carbon-credits
33  IPCC. 2006. Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Volume 4, Chapter 4, T able 4.4. Document available at the following link: https:/ /www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/
pdf/4_Volume4/V4_04_Ch4_Forest_Land.pdfOnce a country decides on the scope for nesting, it 
may also want to consider how to manage projects 
that generate ERs that fall outside that scope.  
For example, a country’s nested system may focus 
on RED, while permitting standalone projects that 
are focused on reforestation; or it may focus on 
aboveground and belowground biomass pools, while 
permitting project-level accounting focused on other 
carbon pools, such as soil carbon. This is because 
projects, which operate at smaller scales, can often 
monitor a range of activities, pools, and gases that are 
much harder to measure at the national scale. Countries can either allow projects that are outside 
the scope of nesting to generate credits (uninhibited),  
or they may wish to establish general guidance on 
whether (and if so how) such projects may seek 
credits. For example, the government could limit the 
standards and/or methodologies that projects can 
use. Alternatively, it may require projects to report 
the data and information they collect to the national 
government in order to strengthen the NFMS. The 
government may also develop guidelines on how 
projects are to measure and monitor emissions and 
removals, following national protocols.
