DOCUMENTO: Nesting-of-REDD-Initiatives-Manual-for-Policymakers (1)
PARTE 4 de 7
Páginas 46 a 60
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 46 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers37
4.3 Aligning the Estimation of GHGs
When GHG estimations are being made at multiple 
scales, it can be useful to reduce mismatches to the 
extent possible . This can promote alignment in ER 
claims and ensure that the efforts being made (and 
rewarded) at smaller scales are contributing to the 
national GHG accounts. This alignment is critical 
for countries engaging in Article 6 transactions, or 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes 
(ITMOs), as discussed in Section 3.4.
One simple way to align GHG measurement is to 
encourage actors at all scales to  use the same 
definitions for forest and REDD+ activities . The use of 
a common definition for forests can help a government 
better manage, understand, and compare the impact 
of the various REDD+ activities occurring within the 
country: obviously, if one project considers a forest to 
be an area with a greater than 30 percent canopy, and 
another is defining it by using a 10 percent canopy, the 
results will not be comparable. 
Similarly, it is helpful if all REDD+ activities that are 
monitoring GHG performance use the same system 
for land representation.  If projects all use the same 
land classifications—for example, the same forest 
types (evergreen, semievergreen, deciduous) and/
or classifications (primary, secondary, etc.)— then 
measurements across projects, and in comparison 
to the national reporting (and data generated by the 
NFMS), will be comparable.
Requiring consistency can promote the environmental 
integrity of ER claims within a nested system  since 
it ensures that the “sum of the parts, ” particularly 
baselines, are equal to the whole (as discussed in 
Section 4.1). In some countries, however, pioneering 
projects were established before the national FREL 
was developed; such projects may have used different 
definitions for forests or land representation systems. 
In such cases, negotiations among stakeholders to 
bring such projects into a nested system over a specific 
period of time should be a priority.
Projects are able to collect more granular data due 
to their more limited geographic extent.  For example, 
they may have more strata (more forest types or 
classifications) than the national data, which allows 
for more accurate estimation of emissions. In such 
cases, it is recommended that once the higher-level 
strata are chosen, activities at the smaller scales 
measure and monitor GHG using, at a minimum, the 
strata from the national monitoring system. They 
may choose to further stratify lands, but within the same higher-level strata (Box 5). This would promote 
consistency, while not constraining projects from 
keeping more detailed data.
Box 5 Aligning Land Classifications
Countries can establish and document protocols 
for defining the hierarchical relationships that 
allow the aggregation and disaggregation of land-
use categories and the stratification of land, in 
particular forest types. This would enhance the 
alignment and consistency of GHG monitoring at 
different scales. For example:
Level 1:   
Forest / Non-Forest 
Level 2:  
A: Forest by Forest Type (evergreen forest, 
deciduous forest)  
B: Non-Forest by IPCC land-use categories 
(croplands, grasslands, settlements, wetlands, 
other lands) 
Level 3:  
A: Forest by Forest Type and Biome: mountain 
evergreen forest, coastal evergreen forest, etc.  
B: Non-Forest by IPCC land-use categories and 
subcategories: i.e., shrublands, pastures, rice 
cultivation, annual crops, woody crops, etc.
Other important aspects for promoting consistency 
of GHG measurement are: (i) aligning the methods 
of generating activity data; and (ii) the consistent 
application of  emission factors (EFs) . Projects often 
use methodologies for estimating GHGs that are 
different from those used at the national scale. This 
may be due to different requirements—for example, 
national GHG inventories are “fit for purpose” for 
reporting to UNFCCC. This is different from project-
scale methodologies, which are approved by standards 
developed to provide assurances about the credibility 
of mitigation actions. Differences in the methodologies 
applied can also be a function of scale, cost, and 
available resources.
Countries should consider the approaches being used 
to collect the activity data from projects, programs, 
and the national FREL, and decide on the best way to 
achieve consistency.  The most widely used methods 
and considerations for achieving consistency are 
described in T able 11 . Aligning methods can promote 
consistency, but it also enables projects to support the 
improvement of NFMS and national GHG inventories.

--- PÁGINA 47 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers38
T able 11  Options for Aligning Activity Data for Nesting34
If the higher scale uses… …then the nested MRV system may consider:
Pixel-based methods , i.e., based on wall-
to-wall land use/cover change dataIf the wall-to-wall maps are sufficiently robust,35 the project may “cookie cut”36 
their accounting areas and use the national maps as a basis for activity data 
(AD). If not, the NFMS may consider how to integrate the more accurate project-
scale maps.
Stratified area estimates , using a 
combination of reference data from 
stratified samples and wall-to-wall maps, 
as described by Olofsson.37A stratified estimate will need to be derived for the project area and for the 
remaining jurisdictional area so that there are two estimates using the same 
methodology. The sampling design should be adequate in terms of the achieved 
level of precision in order to deliver accurate estimations. 
Systematic sampling for areas of land 
cover and change.The systematic grid must be sufficiently intensive to adequately represent land-
use change within the project area. Alternatively, the systematic grid could be 
more intensive in some specific locations, such as in project areas. Results can be 
aggregated from projects to the national scale.
34  The options for aligning activity data for nesting have been based on the Methods and Guidance from the Global Forest Observations Initiative, which is available in the following link: https:/ /
www.reddcompass.org/documents/184/0/GFOI-MGD-3.1_en.pdf/a3412aa7-878a-4b93-a1b7-3813c902bf27#page=150
35  There is no common agreement on the criteria used to consider a FREL “sufficiently robust” to be used in a decentralized nested approach. However, some of the considerations are related to 
a low level of uncertainty, and lack of significant bias, especially at the local scale; and adequate spatial resolution to be able to be used at different scales. 
36  This term refers to an approach that consists of extracting the baseline of lower-level activities directly from the jurisdiction’s
spatially explicit baseline.
37 Olofsson, P., Foody, G. M., Stehman, S. V., & Woodcock, C. E. 2012. “Making Better Use of Accuracy Data in Land Change Studies: Estimating Accuracy and Area, and Quantifying Uncertainty 
Using Stratified Estimation. ” https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2012.10.031


--- PÁGINA 48 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers39
Aligning EFs is challenging, and should be analyzed 
on a case-by-case basis . The heterogeneity of forests 
means that there are large variations in carbon stock 
across different locations. A National Forest Inventory 
(NFI) provides representative data on carbon content 
for different forest classes at the national scale, but 
these data may not be representative of the same 
forest strata at the project scale. Therefore, most 
REDD+ projects collect carbon stock data in the field  
to estimate their own EFs. Such data must meet the 
accuracy requirements set by the standards. 
38  For example, when the forest within a project’s accounting area has a higher level of carbon stock compared to the national average, C stock is used in the FREL for the project’s forest type.Furthermore, few countries have completed 
more than one NFI cycle, and several have not 
yet implemented one complete NFI that includes 
measurement across a national system of inventory 
plots.  In such situations, countries use data collected 
from various sources and studies, which may not 
be fully representative of the actual carbon stocks 
of their forests. Where NFI data cannot provide 
sufficiently robust estimations of EFs at the project 
scale,38 a country may wish to consider methods for 
integrating carbon stock information at various scales 
in order to optimize coherence, representativeness, 
and precision in a way that allows for improvement of 
the national estimates ( T able 12 ). 
T able 12 Options for Aligning Emission Factors for Nesting
If the higher scale… …then the nested MRV system may consider…
…has sufficient C stock measurements for 
use by projects…encouraging projects to use the national data, but at the same time allowing 
them to use local inventory data under well-established protocols, to ensure 
that EFs are reliable and are consistent with NFI data.
…does not have representative C stock 
measurements for use by projects…requiring projects to collect their own data, but to follow consistent method -
ological protocols (set by the government); and national entities to check the 
reliability of results.


--- PÁGINA 49 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers40
4.4 Application of Nesting Approaches
One of the main reasons countries develop nested 
systems is to align their GHG accounting at various 
scales. Doing so strengthens the credibility of the ERs 
generated by both governments and projects. This 
section explores the MRV systems that are needed for 
each model.
Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with Benefit 
Sharing
In a jurisdictional ER program with benefit sharing 
but without ER crediting at the project level, the 
purpose of the MRV system is to ensure the accurate 
measurement and accounting of ERs at the national 
level.  In this instance, the integration of activities 
into the ER program does not require activity-level 
MRV or carbon accounting. (See Section 6 , on benefit sharing, for more detail). A schematic representation 
of a jurisdictional ER program structure is provided in  
Figure 1 . This approach involves three main elements:
1. A FREL is used as the performance benchmark at 
the jurisdictional level.
2. A monitoring report, through which ERs are 
estimated by comparing emissions reported in the 
FREL to emissions during the monitoring period, is 
created.
3. ERs are claimed by the government, which 
may monetize them through either market or 
nonmarket approaches, and then distribute 
monetary or nonmonetary benefits, using defined 
benefit-sharing arrangements. 
National FRELRECIPIENT:
GOVERNMENTMonitoring Performance
at National LevelERs
In this model, in order to access finance, countries 
must meet either the requirements of the funding 
instrument from which they are seeking payment 
(GCF, FCPF Carbon Fund, BioCF-ISFL, or a bilateral 
39 The FCPF Carbon Fund Methodological Framework, Verified Carbon Standard’s Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+, or VCS JNR, the Architecture for REDD+ Transactions’ The REDD+ Environ -
mental Excellency Standard, or ART-TREES.agreement), or of the standard39 from which they are 
seeking to issue ERs. This decision-making process is 
illustrated in Figure 14 .Figure 14. Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with Benefit Sharing
Monitor the performance
at the Jurisdictional scaleYES
NOYES
NO
Has national performance
been monitored?
Develop a FREL
Considerations to develop a FREL:
REDD+ activities, pools, gases
Forest deﬁnition
Land stratiﬁcation
Data and methods Has a FREL
been developed?Generate ERs
Monitoring should 
be consistent
with the FRELFigure 14  Decision-Making Process for a Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with a Benefit-Sharing Approach

--- PÁGINA 50 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers41
Centralized Nested Approach
In the centralized nested approach, a sophisticated 
MRV is needed in order to reflect the GHG 
performance of the projects and programs that are 
embedded in the national system.  ERs are measured 
at the national level; however, the government allows, 
or encourages, MRV of ERs at the project level as 
well. Projects that achieve ERs then participate in the 
benefit-sharing plan, as discussed in Section 6. Either 
monetary or nonmonetary benefits can be shared by 
applying an ER allocation method that is based on the 
GHG performance of projects.
This approach involves five main elements:
1. Development of a FREL as the performance 
benchmark at the jurisdictional level;
2. Monitoring of performance (ERs) against the FREL 
(at the jurisdictional scale);3. A rule-based allocation system for sharing 
jurisdictional ERs, based on the GHG performance 
of projects (and/or programs);
4. Monitoring performance at the project scale 
could include assigning baselines to projects (as 
discussed in Section 4.1);
5. The distribution of benefits to projects in the form 
of finance, or allocated ERs. 
The main distinctive feature of this approach is 
the development of an ER allocation. National 
GHG performance, or ERs, are shared among the 
government and projects (and/or the subnational 
jurisdictions), and are distributed following rules of 
allocation that ideally result in a “fair share” of ERs 
distributed among all actors. Figure 15 summarizes 
this approach.
The MRV requirements under this model include 
components at both the national and project scales. 
Since the ER allocation to projects is based on GHG 
performance, it is desirable to achieve consistency 
between the FREL and the national ER estimation, 
as well as among the MRV systems of projects (as 
discussed in Section 4.1). T o promote harmonized claims to ERs, the government may align land-use 
definitions and classifications, and/or data sources 
and methods in estimating emissions (Section 4.3). 
In most cases, the reference and crediting periods for 
projects and programs will need to be aligned with 
those used in the FREL, and for the monitoring of 
national performance, as illustrated in Figure 16 .Figure 15  Centralized Nested Approach
FREL Allocation
Monitoring
Performance at
National Level 
REDD+ project 1
REDD+ project 2National Program
ERs
ERs
 ERs
ERs
Monitoring
Performance at
Project LevelProject 
Baseline
Based on GåHG
performanceER Allocation
National 
FREL
Figure 16  Decision-Making Process for a Centralized Nested Approach
Has a FREL
been developed?
Has nationalperformance
been monitored?
Develop a FREL
ERs can be 
generatedis there an 
ER allocation 
method?
ERs allocated to
projects and programs 
Design and implement an
ER Allocation Method*
Monitor the
performance at the 
jurisdictional/national scaleYES
NO
Elements applied consistently:
• REDD+ activities, pools and gases
• Forest deﬁnition
• Land stratiﬁcation
• Data and methodsData and methods to estimate
GHG performance should be
consistent with the FRELER allocation based on GHG performance:
• See Section 5.2 for technical considerations
• Clarity needed on responsibilities for
 generating data
• Capacity to manage system should be 
 consideredYES
NOYES
NO

--- PÁGINA 51 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers42
Decentralized Nested Approach
A decentralized nested approach is designed to 
encourage crediting at multiple scales.  In this model, 
projects are provided with a share of the national 
FREL; they can then generate, issue, and monetize 
credits without being tied to national ER performance. 
The main difference from the centralized nested 
approach is that only a FREL allocation is required, 
not an ER allocation .
A FREL allocation system distributes portions of the 
FREL to REDD+ projects, establishing their baselines. 
Ideally, the allocation represents business-as-usual 
emissions.  Various allocation methods are being used 
or tested in several countries. For example:
1. One emerging method is to allocate the FREL 
to projects, using a “risk-based” method.  This 
method is currently proposed under VCS JNR.40 In 
order to create such an allocation, the government 
develops a risk map, identifying areas of high 
versus low threat, based on variables related 
to deforestation and forest degradation, if it is 
included in the baseline. These variables might 
include distance to areas of past deforestation, 
distance to the forest edge, or accessibility (roads, 
population density, slope, etc.). (Section 4.1 has 
covered this approach in further detail.)
40 Currently there is only one standard that accommodates this type of nesting, i.e., Verra’s Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+ (JNR).
41 Art. 45, Resolution No. 1447, August 1, 2018. Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development, Colombia 2. Another option is to assign a “maximum 
mitigation potential” to projects . This approach 
is included in one resolution that guides project 
crediting in Colombia.41 In this instance, projects 
set their baseline using a certification or standard 
approved by the government, but they cannot 
exceed an assigned maximum value, which is 
provided by the government.
This approach involves four main elements: 
1. Development of a FREL  as a performance 
benchmark at the jurisdictional level;
2. A FREL allocation system ; 
3. Monitoring at multiple scales ; 
a. REDD+ projects/programs: results are estimated 
against the project/program baseline.
b. Jurisdictional level: results are estimated against 
the FREL.
4. Issuance of ERs : Both projects and jurisdictional 
programs are able to issue ERs. T o avoid double 
counting of ERs, a system is needed to avoid 
selling more ERs than actually exist. (For example, 
some funding instruments require the government 
to subtract project-level crediting from 
jurisdictional results.)
Allocation
Select either:
• FREL allocation using risk map
• Maximum mitigation potential
National 
FREL
 National Program
 National Program
Monitoring
Performance
Monitoring
Performance
Monitoring
Performance
ERs
ERs
ERsREDD+ 
project 1
REDD+
project 2
REDD+ 
project 1
REDD+
project 2Figure 17 Representation of the Decentralized Nested Approach

--- PÁGINA 52 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers43
In order to build an appropriate MRV system for this 
model, first the government will need to establish 
a FREL that is sufficiently robust for nesting; and 
if the government wishes to issue carbon credits 
at the jurisdictional scale, it will need to follow the 
requirements of the standard that will issue, or certify, 
such credits. Some standards, such as VCS JNR, also 
have requirements for the jurisdictional reference level 
that is allocated to projects.Next, a FREL allocation methodology is required (see 
Section 4.1 for further details). Following this, the 
government may need to provide guidance for project 
monitoring, to promote alignment in the methods used 
to estimate GHGs. The decision-making process for 
this approach is illustrated in Figure 18 .
Figure 18 Decision-Making Process for a Decentralized Nested Approach
YES
NOYES
NOYES
NO
Is the FREL
suﬃciently 
robust
for nesting?
Is there an 
Allocation
Method in place?
Revise the 
FREL
Considerations to develop FREL for nesting:
• Reduce uncertainty
• Ensure the reliability of data and
   methods at diﬀerent scales
• Develop spatial data for risk mapping
Considerations for an Allocation Method:
• If using a FREL allocation, develop risk
  map and allocate portions to projects
• If using a maximum mitigation approach,
  consider how to reward level of eﬀort
• Consider options for aligning crediting
  periods at multiple scales.
Considerations for monitoring rules and procedures:
• Consistency with the FREL and allocation method
  including deﬁnitions, stratiﬁcation, data and
  methods to estimate emissions
• Adjust to the capacity and resources of projects and
  the national government
• Consider integration of better data from projects
  into national monitoring systemAre there rules for 
monitoring 
performance
at diﬀerent scales?
Design and implement
an Allocation Method
Monitor the 
performance
at multiple scales
Develop Monitoring
rules and proceduresGenerate 
ERs
Figure 19  Representation of Project Crediting (only) No Jurisdictional ER Program 
Monitoring
Performance
Monitoring
Performance
Project
Baseline
Project
Baseline
ERs
ERs
REDD+ 
project 1
REDD+ 
project 1
REDD+
project 2
REDD+
project 2Project Crediting (only), No Jurisdictional ER Program 
Under this model, the government may not intend to 
engage in jurisdictional crediting, or to seek results-based payments at the national level as part of its 
REDD+ strategy.  Only project crediting is anticipated 
in the near term. As such, projects monitor their own 
performance and generate ERs ( Figure 19 ).  
Some governments may wish to design a system 
that aligns the ER claims of REDD+ projects with 
national GHG reporting. Such alignment can improve 
the environmental integrity of ERs generated at the 
project scale by ensuring that project baselines do not 
exceed the national FREL; facilitating comparability; 
and promoting their contribution to the reported 
national GHG performance. 
Where a government wishes to promote such 
alignment, it could establish rules for projects (or small- scale programs) for issuing credits. Such rules 
and procedures will depend on the level of alignment 
the government wishes to achieve. This may include 
the use of specific standards and methodologies; 
requirements to use national definitions of forest and/
or REDD+ activities and land use classifications; or 
certain GHG estimation methodologies (see Section 
4.3). The government can also set rules for baseline 
setting (Section 4.1), and/or additional requirements, 
such as data sharing, in order to improve the national 
forest monitoring system and capacities.

--- PÁGINA 53 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers44
Figure 20  Decision-Making Process for a Project Crediting (only), No Jurisdictional ER Program 
Considerations for alignment:
• Deﬁnition of REDD+ activities
• Forest deﬁnition
• Land stratiﬁcation
• Data and methods for AD and EF
• Baseline setting methodology
YES
NO
Is there a desire
to align project
ER claims?Are baselines 
aligned?
Projects 
generate
ERs using 
own methods
Are monitoring
systems aligned?
Set rules to align
project baselines
Considerations for monitoring rules 
and procedures:
• Consistency with the FREL
• Adjust to capabilities and resources
• Integration of data from projects into
  national monitoring systemMonitor 
performance
Develop rules 
to align 
monitoringProjects 
generate
“aligned” ERs
YES
NOYES
NO


--- PÁGINA 54 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers45
5.1 General Considerations
The  legal, regulatory, and governance frameworks 
of a country influence its nesting architecture.  The 
forest and land tenure regime, and the associated 
rights (forest ownership, management and 
exploitation rights, and/or the rights of local and 
Indigenous communities), as well as the governance 
of forest resources, and the status of private property 
rights in any given country, will influence its options 
for REDD+ design and nesting. Legal and regulatory 
frameworks, including those adopted in the context 
of REDD+, can help to clarify “carbon rights” and the 
procedures for approval and registration of REDD+ 
projects (see Section 11). 
T o date, no REDD+ credits have been issued to 
national governments, and few governments 
have adopted laws or regulations that clarify the 
transactions of REDD+ credits.42 Currently, project-
level forest carbon transactions happen largely 
in the context of voluntary carbon markets that 
establish carbon rights based on general laws; the 
forest and land resource ownership systems; and the 
contributions that local stakeholders make toward 
reducing GHG emissions and enhancing removals. 
Sovereign transactions that involve the transfer of 
verified ERs are only being piloted under the FCPF 
Carbon Fund, and in such cases the verified ERs are 
defined in contracts, such as the FCPF Emission 
Reduction Payment Agreements (ERPAs) (including 
under their General Conditions).43 
42  For example, Fiji’s draft climate change law, Mozambique’s REDD+ decree, and Madagascar’s draft REDD+ decree.
43  See General Conditions Applicable to Emission Reductions Payment Agreements, November 2014, found at: https:/ /www.forestcarbonpartnership.org/system/files/documents/FCPF%20
ERPA_General%20Conditions_November%201%202014_0.pdf
44  Knox, A. et al. (2012). Forest Carbon Rights Guidebook: A T ool for Framing Legal Rights to Carbon Benefits Generated through REDD+ Programming. 5.2 Establishing Carbon Rights
Designing a nested REDD+ system requires 
understanding the rights of communities and 
individuals to benefit from ecosystem services 
as well as the resulting ERs. Such rights are often 
described as “carbon rights. ” They define who has 
“the right to benefit from sequestered carbon and/
or reduced greenhouse gas emissions. ”44 There is no 
universal definition of carbon rights, and establishing 
the right to ERs (as well as the related benefits) 
in REDD+ requires a careful evaluation of national 
laws and regulatory frameworks. Broadly speaking, 
carbon rights can derive either from ownership of the 
land and forest resources and/or from an activity that 
reduces emissions or enhances removals (known as an 
ecosystem service).  They can be clarified by formal 
law or regulations (climate change laws, ministerial 
decrees, etc.) or, in the absence of a law or regulation, 
by contract. Carbon rights can lead to the right to 
commercialize ERs, or to participate in REDD+ benefit 
sharing (see Section 6). 
Carbon rights  should be distinguished from issued 
and tradable carbon credits . Carbon credits  are 
defined units: generally, they represent one tonne of 
emissions reductions (ERs) that are traceable and 
tradable (see Box 6 ). They are issued in national or 
international carbon registries, and are identifiable 
through a serial number. Carbon rights , by contrast, 
describe an underlying entitlement to benefit from ERs 
or REDD+. They are not a defined or tradable asset. 
5. LEGAL ISSUES

--- PÁGINA 55 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers46
Box 6. Creation and Recognition of  
Carbon Credits
Carbon credits, or ERs, are created and recognized 
or defined by laws or regulations, private carbon 
standards, or contracts. Each of these contexts refers 
to different functions.
Carbon credits under international law:
- Can be traded under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement (see Section 3.4) as ITMOs (Art. 6.2) or 
as ERs (Art. 6.4);
- May allow for offsetting under international 
sectoral ER schemes such as ICAO’s market-based 
mechanism, CORSIA.
Carbon credits under national (or subnational) law:
- Enable compliance with national regulation in 
places where forest owners are obliged to reduce 
emissions, such as in the New Zealand emission 
trading system;45
- Enable cost-effective compliance with cap-
and-tr ade systems through offsetting ERs 
generated by projects that comply with 
offset protocols defined by the government 
regulator. For example, the Colombia carbon 
tax law allows carbon credits, including 
REDD+ credits, to be used against the carbon 
tax; and California’s cap-and-trade system 
allows regulated entities to use domestic 
forest credits.46
Carbon credits under private standards:
- Enable private entities to purchase carbon 
credits with the assurance of their environmental 
integrity (Verra, Gold Standards, and others 
that certify ERs for use in the voluntary carbon 
market).
Carbon credits under contracts:
- Enable parties to engage in bilaterally defined 
transactions. (For example, under FCPF’s ERPAs, 
carbon credits define the ecosystem service 
rendered and paid for under the agreement);
- The transacted ERs can be issued as a carbon 
credit in a registry, or they may remain a 
nontradable service between the contractual 
parties. 
45  Details on New Zealand’s emission trading can be accessed under https:/ /www.climatechange.govt.nz/emissions-trading-scheme/about/  (last accessed on 1November 1, 2020).
46  See California Air Resources Board, “How Do I Buy, Sell, and Trade Compliance Instruments?” 2012. Available at http:/ /www.arb.ca.gov/cc/capandtrade/guidance/chapter5.pdf (last accessed 
on 25 December 2015), and the Centre for Climate and Energy Solutions. “California Cap and Trade Brief. ” no date given, available www.c2es.org/us-states-regions/key-legislation/califor -
nia-cap-trade#Details (last accessed on 1 November 2020).Establishing Carbon Rights 
Carbon rights justify participation in REDD+ projects 
and benefit sharing for publicly managed REDD+ 
programs . While agreements between the government 
and international partners can establish rights 
under international public or private law, carbon 
rights depend on the national legal system (See Box 
7  Concepts and Definitions ). Governments that have 
agreed to transfer ERs to international partners must 
ensure that those obligations are consistent with 
national laws. Of course governments do have the 
ability to alter the national legal order by adopting 
additional laws, or clarifying their laws through 
regulation, but those laws and regulations have to 
recognize the constitutional order of a country, and 
ensure alignment and consistency with generally 
applicable legal principles.
So far, few tropical forest countries have adopted 
formal legislation that defines ERs, or that clarifies 
carbon rights, or participatory rights under REDD+.  
Such laws, where they exist, tend to define these 
rights in relation to the rights to the land or forest, 
or the participation in conservation activities. In 
the absence of a formal law that provides such 
clarification, these are the two most important 
indicators of carbon rights:
·	 Rights to the land, forest, or trees , which can 
imply full ownership, usufruct, or management 
rights under statuary, customary, or traditional 
legal systems, including the rights of Indigenous 
peoples and local communities.
·	 Control of the activity  that leads to reduced 
emissions or increased removals , that is, the 
communities or households, farms, or legal entities 
that invest in activities that generate ERs.


--- PÁGINA 56 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers47
Box 7  Concepts and Definitions in 
Relation to Carbon Rights
A carbon  right is a justified claim to the benefit 
obtained from reduced GHG emissions and/or 
sequestered carbon.  
GHG emission reductions and removals (ERs) refers to 
a tonne of CO2e greenhouse gas, measured against the 
reference level or baseline that has been either avoided 
(emission reduction) or sequestered (removed). It is 
often defined with reference to a carbon standard. 
Right and title to ERs refers to rights defined on the 
basis of a contract (for example, FCPF’s ERPA), or a 
law (for example, local emission trading legislation) 
that assigns a transferable right to an ER . 
Carbon credit refers to an ER that has been created 
(issued) according to the rules of a carbon standard, 
and that is tradable and traceable in a GHG registry.  
Benefits refer to  monetary and/or nonmonetary 
support received for the participation in forest carbon 
projects or a jurisdictional ER program. Participation 
in benefit-sharing arrangements might be based, 
among other things, on the holding of carbon rights to 
the generated ERs.
The Right to Land and Its Associated Carbon 
The ownership status of forest areas influences the 
design of a nested system:
In many developing countries, forest resources 
are deemed to be the property of the state, which 
affords governments wide latitude for asserting 
some rights and denying others, particularly when 
new economic opportunities surface.  For example, in 
the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) all forests 
are owned by the state, and the national government 
passed a “Homologation Decree” in 2018 that asserts 
that it has the primary right to all forest-related 
ERs. However, these rights can be transferred to 
private project developers through a “ certificate 
d’homologation. ”47 In similar fashion, Mozambique 
considers all forest-related ERs to reside with the 
national government, though they can be transferred 
to project developers.48  Madagascar  has gone a step 
further by proposing in a draft REDD+ decree (not yet 
formally adopted) that the government owns all ERs 
47  Arrêté ministériel No 047/CAB/MIN/EDD/AAN/MML/05/2018 du 9 mai 2018 fixant la procédure d'homologation des projets REDD+
48  Government of Mozambique. Regulamento Para Programas e Projectos Inerentes à Redução de Emissões Por Desmatamento e Degradação Florestal de Carbono (REDD+). 2018. Maputo, 
Mozambique.
49  Government of Madagascar. Draft Benefit Sharing Plan, ER Program Atiala Atsinanana; FCPF Benefit Sharing Plan Version 2.0; Antananarivo, Madagascar, 2020.
50  Article 22 (2), Decreto 7-2013, Congreso de la República de Guatemala, Ley Marco para regular la reducción de la vulnerabilidad, la adaptación obligatoria ante los efectos del cambio 
climático y la mitigación de gases de efecto invernadero.
51  The power of the state to claim private property for public use is sometimes referred to as eminent domain, land acquisition, compulsory purchase, resumption, or expropriation. 
52  Art. 179 and ss. Loi n° 33-2020 du 8 juillet 2020 portant code forestier at https:/ /www.sgg.cg/JO/2020/congo-jo-2020-04-sp.pdf
53  Art. 179 Loi N. 33-2020 portant code forestier de la République du Congo « Le droit de générer les crédits carbon et de les commercialiser est reconnu aux personnes physiques ou morales ». generated by REDD+ activities and holds the exclusive 
right to commercialize such rights.49
In other countries, private forest holdings, or 
various customary, traditional, or statutory land 
rights exist that may make it harder to centralize 
all forest carbon rights within the government . For 
example, Guatemala  clarifies in their Law-Decree 
7-2013 (Climate Change Law) that  “the rights, title 
and negotiations of the carbon emission reduction 
units” belong to project developers and those with 
a title to manage the land.50 This opens the door for 
private carbon market projects in Guatemala, and 
limits the government’s ability to take a centralized 
approach to nesting, which requires either entering 
into arrangements with such rights holders in order to 
transfer ownership of the ERs, or having the authority 
to market and monetize them on behalf of the rights 
holder, in return for some kind of compensation 
(benefit-sharing mechanisms, or other means). The 
claim to forest carbon rights by the government in 
countries with strong private property systems, and 
without any aforementioned arrangement with the 
rights holder may result in an expropriation for which 
governments may have to compensate the original 
rights holders, if the government’s claim of carbon 
credits limits the exercise of private property.51 
In its recent Forest Code, the Republic of Congo  
clarified that carbon rights follow from the type of 
forest land tenure where the activity takes place.52 
In public forests, carbon rights are assigned to the 
state or other local public entities, while in community 
forests the ERs generated are either solely or jointly 
owned by the local community and/or by Indigenous 
peoples. The Forest Code also stipulates that the 
content of carbon rights covers both the right to 
generate carbon credits and the right to commercialize 
them.53
In some countries carbon rights may be embroiled 
in land conflicts. Weak recognition of tenure 
rights, failure to conduct meaningful stakeholder 
consultations, and growing demand for land have led 
to an increase in land conflicts. This has resulted in 
growing danger for communities and those defending 
their forest and land rights. Contestable land titles, 
overlapping tenure regimes, and land grabbing can 
lead to violence, illegality, and marginal livelihoods in 
many developing countries. In this context, clarifying 

--- PÁGINA 57 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers48
the right to participate in REDD+ carbon crediting, or 
in a REDD+ jurisdictional ER program and its related 
benefit-sharing mechanisms by way of meaningful 
stakeholder consultations, is essential in order to 
strengthen the rights of Indigenous peoples and forest 
communities, and their long struggle to assert their 
land and resource rights. This can prevent having 
the question of who has the right to benefit from 
REDD+ from becoming a proxy for unresolved and 
contested rights to land and the associated economic 
opportunities. 
Nesting can help to implement REDD+ in countries 
that are in the process of decentralizing forest 
governance . In many countries, forest policy has 
evolved in recent years toward decentralization 
of forest governance and the recognition of rights 
in favor of local and/or Indigenous communities 
and/or regional and local governments. REDD+ 
implementation should be consistent with such efforts. 
Allowing project REDD+ activities to be led or co-led 
by local communities, and recognizing their rights 
to the land and its natural resources—including the 
associated carbon rights—is aligned with this trend in 
forest devolution in many developing countries. Such 
empowerment of communities can, depending on the 
legal context of the country, mean that communities 
have the right to initiate and participate in projects, 
or that they are duly considered in the related benefit-
sharing mechanisms. 
The forest tenure regime may influence the definition 
of rights to ERs as well as the type of REDD+ 
implementation model that is developed.  
·	 For countries that recognize community or 
private rights in forest land, management, or 
resources, a decentralized nested system may 
be an appropriate approach for honoring such 
rights. Countries with a forest tenure regime 
that recognizes a diversified typology of forest 
ownership, such as public property (state, 
municipal, protected areas) and private property 
(individuals or Indigenous/ local communities’ 
lands), typically recognize that carbon rights 
belong to the forest landowners or managers. 
·	 Countries in which forest resources are 
attributed to the state by constitution or law, 
and the state retains the right to manage and/
or has established by law that all carbon rights 
rest with the state may choose to implement 
54  Art. 7. Reglamento de la Ley N° 30215, Ley de Mecanismos de Retribución por Servicios Ecosistémicos.a jurisdictional ER program (only) with benefit 
sharing, or to design a centralized nested 
approach.
·	 Countries with state forests, but laws that 
authorize private actors or communities 
to manage them may want to implement 
centralized-nested and/or decentralized-
nested approaches. For countries that have 
national procedures in place for (i) allocating 
the management of state forests to private 
parties (through licenses or concessions); or 
(ii) recognizing ancestral land rights to local or 
Indigenous communities, with the state as the 
original holder of rights to ERs, a nested approach 
may be the most fitting. 
Implementation and Control of the Activity
Control of the activities that lead to forest-related 
emission reductions or removals by stewards of 
the forest can also lead to legitimate claims to 
monetize ERs or to participate in benefit sharing. 
For example,  Peru  regulates carbon rights through 
the legislation of ecosystem services. Their legislation 
defines contributors to the environmental service 
as those that (i) contribute to the conservation, 
recovery, and sustainable use of the sources of the 
ecosystem services (“activity factor”) through the 
implementation of technically viable actions; and/or 
(ii) can demonstrate certain types of forest tenure, 
such as owner, possessor, concessionaire, or holder of 
assignment in use (“tenure factor”).54 In other words, 
both land tenure and control of the activity play a role 
in the assignment of carbon rights.  
Carbon rights that are related to the control of an 
activity can accrue to a community, a municipality, 
or a government agency.  Project developers or 
investors often claim a secondary, transferred carbon 
right due to their role in financing and monetizing 
the ERs flowing from a project. Communities and 
individuals can transfer the right to monetize ERs 
in return for their participation in benefit-sharing 
arrangements. In the case of REDD+ projects, 
there are usually several entities that cooperate 
in implementing the activities that lead to the 
environmental service of ERs. In such cases, the 
rights to ERs are often defined in contracts agreed 
upon among the parties involved in the ER-generating 
activities. 

--- PÁGINA 58 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers49
Governments need to assess the rights of individuals 
and communities when deciding how to create 
incentives and integrate projects into national 
ER programs. National REDD+ programs involve a 
large number of actors. There may be many rights 
holders, and there may be many rights affected. 
Further compounding this challenge is the fact that in 
many countries land tenure is frequently contested; 
there is a general lack of forest land cadasters; 
and customary rights may conflict with statutory 
rights.55 In such cases, governments may want to 
conduct consultations and develop participatory 
benefit-sharing systems  that recognize the rights 
of communities and individuals to receive carbon 
benefits for the ecosystem services of their activities. 
Alternatively, they can integrate community-led 
projects into nested REDD+ systems.
T able 13  (in Section 5.3) provides examples of 
different types of forest land ownership and the likely 
associated carbon rights.
5.3 Application to Nesting Approaches
This section describes various nesting approaches 
as they apply to forest and land tenure regimes and 
carbon rights. These are summarized below in T able 13 . 
Generally, centralized models tend to work better in 
situations where public forests are owned, controlled, 
and managed by the state, while the existence of 
private and community rights over forests and forest 
resources favors decentralized models. However, 
public ownership of forests, and control over their 
management does not prevent the implementation 
of a decentralized system; and a centralized system 
could be implemented even where there is a diversity 
of forest land ownership, with strong private property 
rights. For example, the government might make 
contractual arrangements with rights holders in which 
the rights holders assign their ownership rights to the 
government, or authorize the government to market 
and monetize ERs on their behalf in return for some 
form of compensation.  
The elaboration of nested REDD+ systems is very 
context-specific, and often reflects complex 
preexisting tenure and rights systems. For example, 
many countries have a mixture of state-owned 
and private lands. A country with strong private 
rights over forest land and resources can choose to 
implement a centralized approach over public lands 
while recognizing the right to private initiatives on 
nonstate lands. Or it can choose to restrict preexisting 
55  Streck, C. (2015). In the Market Current Developments in Carbon & Climate Law: Forest Carbon Rights - Shedding Light on a Muddy Concept. Carbon & Climate Law Review (CCLR), 2015(4), 
342–347.land and resource rights, and claim the right to 
centralize the management of REDD+ benefits on 
the basis of a law. However, depending on the legal 
context, those with the rights to forest land and 
resources may demand compensation. On the other 
hand, governments may implement a decentralized 
approach within state-owned lands by passing laws 
that authorize private entities to implement projects 
within such lands.
In the absence of laws and regulations that centralize 
all of the rights to managing REDD+, the public 
entities or communities and individuals that own 
or manage the land may have default claims to 
ERs. Governments may adopt laws that authorize or 
restrict the development of projects in certain areas 
of the country (for example, for religious or sanctuary 
forest areas, or isolated Indigenous communities’ 
areas), and that encourage them in other parts of 
the forest. They can also regulate carbon projects 
on private and community lands by requiring the 
registration of projects and the reporting of ERs (and 
potentially taxing their sales). Finally, governments 
can recognize private rights to carbon and still involve 
private entities in the benefit-sharing programs of a 
REDD+ (nonmarket), results-based payment scheme. 
Regardless of the design choices a government makes, 
the existing rights regime influences the particular 
direction or form that REDD+ implementation takes. 
Several options follow.
Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with Benefit 
Sharing
This approach is easiest to implement in countries 
where the national government makes all relevant 
land-use decisions and manages all or most of the 
country’s forests. In cases where  forest resources 
are state assets, the government claims senior (or 
original) rights to the associated carbon. In such 
cases, REDD+ projects cannot claim a right to benefit 
from REDD+ activities, and do not hold carbon rights, 
unless the government passes a law authorizing such 
activities and transferring the carbon rights. In this 
model, REDD+ activities are implemented through 
public programs that seek to influence actors through 
public monetary or nonmonetary incentives. The 
actors do not directly engage in ER transactions, but 
they can be included in the benefit-sharing mechanism 
of a country, and can receive payments in the context 
of incentive programs that the government might 
create (See Section 6 on benefit sharing). 

--- PÁGINA 59 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers50
In most countries, even if forest resources or lands 
are publicly owned, there are legal constructs 
through which rights are granted, especially to local 
communities or Indigenous peoples.  In such cases, 
this model would have to recognize the devolution 
of rights to such communities, and either clarify 
through law or regulations that the communities 
are authorized to develop projects, or ensure their 
inclusion in the benefit-sharing mechanism.
Centralized Nested Approach
The centralized nested approach is adequate in 
countries where the state owns the forest resources, 
but wishes to create direct ER performance 
incentives on public lands. In this case the state 
recognizes the right of land managers within public 
lands (such as individuals and communities delegated 
by law to manage public forest land through 
concessions, licenses, or national agreements) to 
benefit from REDD+. The government authorizes 
such actors to benefit from a share of ER payments, 
ERs, and/or the right to generate a specified volume 
of ERs based on the ER allocation (apportioning 
national-scale REDD+ performance). It may choose 
to impose additional requirements, such as applying 
project safeguards derived from national safeguards, 
accounting standards, or reporting obligations.  
A government can extend the centralized nested 
approach to private lands . Where land managers 
in private lands have recognized carbon rights, the 
government may need to enter into contractual 
arrangements that recognize their right to receive 
a share of ER payments or ERs in return for 
authorization to use and receive payments for generated ERs. When a REDD+ project transitions into 
this model, it could negatively impact its performance. 
Related risks of performance are covered in more 
detail in Section 8.
Decentralized Nested Approach
The decentralized nested approach is adequate 
where there are strong private property rights 
and there is mixed ownership of land and forest 
resources. Under this approach, the government 
claims the carbon rights associated with public lands, 
and private owners or communities claim the rights 
derived from their recognized forest and land areas. 
Communities and individuals are also free to engage in 
REDD+ projects and to generate ERs. The government 
recognizes the right of private entities to benefit from 
activities implemented on their land, including the 
marketing and commercialization of ERs. As under 
the centralized nested approach, the government 
may choose to impose additional requirements, such 
as applying project safeguards derived from national 
safeguards, accounting standards, or reporting 
obligations.  
Project Crediting (only), No Jurisdictional ER Program 
When the government does not wish to benefit 
directly from results-based finance (RBF) or carbon 
finance, it can still recognize the rights of private 
entities to benefit from ERs. Under this approach, 
the government recognizes (and encourages) the 
development of projects. It can regulate these 
projects, and mandate the use of allocated baselines 
and safeguards. It can also require the projects to 
report their ERs to the government. 


--- PÁGINA 60 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers51
T able 13 Significance of Forest Land T enure, Carbon Rights, and Claims to ERs Under Different Models 
Type of Forest Land 
T enure / Natural Resource 
RegimeCarbon Rights and Claims to ERs Likely Nested 
Model
State controls forest land, 
resources, and management·	Carbon rights rest with the state, and the state claims 
the benefits from ERs.
·	Only the state engages in the commercialization and 
management of ERs.Jurisdictional ER 
Program (only)
State controls forest land 
with licensed management by 
communities and private entities·	Carbon rights rest with the state.
·	The state engages in RBF or carbon finance.
·	The right to benefit from ERs is transferred by the 
state to the  private entities and communities that 
manage forest resources .Centralized Nested
Recognition of a variety of 
property types and diverse land 
management systems·	Carbon rights rest both with the state and with 
nonstate (private community) entities.
·	The state can engage in RBF or carbon finance.
·	Nonstate actors are entitled to market and monetize 
ERs.Decentralized Nested
Nonstate entities (communities, 
private entities) control large parts 
of the forest land·	Carbon rights rest both with the state and nonstate 
(private community) entities.
·	Nonstate actors control a significant percentage of 
land and forest resources.
·	The state does not market and monetize ERs.
·	Nonstate actors are entitled to market and monetize 
ERs.Project Crediting (only)