DOCUMENTO: Nesting-of-REDD-Initiatives-Manual-for-Policymakers (1)
PARTE 6 de 7
Páginas 76 a 90
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 76 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers67
T able 17: Risks Inherent in the Decentralized Nested Approach
Type of  
RiskNational  
RiskProject  
RiskSpecific Risks and Mitigation Measures
ER  
Performance
√The government may put its ability to claim ERs in certain contexts at risk if 
projects perform well, but areas outside the project perform poorly. For example, it 
may not achieve its NDC, or may not be able to access results-based payments if 
project performance exceeds national performance. This can be mitigated by:
·	Ensuring that there are robust government efforts to achieve REDD+ 
performance outside project areas.
·	Allowing corresponding adjustments to project credits only after estimating the 
countrywide performance. 
·	Defining a robust FREL allocation methodology.
√Projects may face reputational or credibility risks if the overall national performance 
is poor and leakage risks are high. This can be mitigated by:
·	Designing activities for reducing leakage, and communicating why the project 
has reduced emissions even if the country’s emissions are not reduced.
Projects may also face risks if the government changes the overall FREL under which 
they must nest (see Section 4 on MRVs for more detail). This can be mitigated by:
·	Providing predictability to the extent possible, on when and how the FREL and 
the allocation will take place, in clearly stated nesting rules; and establishing a 
calendar for future amendments of FREL.
·	Defining buffers to enable compensation for this risk, similar to mitigating the 
risk of nonpermanence.
Financial  Risk
√ √Payment and default risk are assumed by the corresponding actors: that is, the 
government at the jurisdictional level, and projects at their specific scales. Both 
have direct access to market ERs.
Legal and 
Regulatory  
Risks
√Early-action projects may be at risk when a nested system is implemented. This can 
be mitigated by:
·	Negotiating a transition of such projects into the nested program. 
“Grandparenting” agreements should be contractually confirmed between 
early-action projects and the government, and could include a time limitation 
for existing projects, and a cut-off date for full integration into the nested 
program. (This may also be addressed by private standards).
Government changes to nesting rules can put projects at risk. This risk can be 
mitigated by:
·	Adopting a clear set of predictable rules and procedures for changing such rules 
in the future, and allowing for “grandparenting” if the rules are changed.
√International or domestic private actors may claim damages from the government, 
in particular if the proportion of the FREL allocated to the projects reduces its 
capacity to perform. This can be mitigated by:
·	Agreements with projects, an agreed-upon transition period, and measures 
that delink the ability of projects to access rewards for GHG performance.
·	Adopting clear and stable nesting rules. 
·	Avoiding claiming ERs where governments do not have the right to do so.
Political  Risk
√ √Social unrest may occur if the allocation of FREL, or its implementation, is considered 
unfair. This can be mitigated by:
·	Including existing and future project proponents and local communities in 
the design of nesting agreements. 
Environmental  
Integrity  Risk
√ √The risk of double counting could occur, since the sum of the parts could be 
more than the total. Overestimation of ERs could occur if carbon accounting 
methodologies at the REDD+ project level or the ER program level are not accurate, 
or consistent. This can be mitigated by:
·	Defining an accurate FREL allocation methodology.
·	Defining accurate and standardized carbon accounting methodologies and 
monitoring to be applicable to all levels.

--- PÁGINA 77 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers68
Project Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional Program
Under the project crediting (only) approach, the 
government does not seek payment for jurisdictional 
performance , but it encourages and regulates projects 
in the context of its national REDD+ strategy. This 
approach may constitute a starting point for countries that are moving toward nested approaches. However, 
if projects are insufficient for achieving national 
REDD+ goals, it will likely require the government 
to take action without itself accessing RBF. It may 
receive other sources of international support for 
implementing its REDD+ strategy, however, such as 
climate finance or development assistance.
T able 18: Risks Inherent in the Project Crediting (Only) Approach
Type of  RiskNational  
RiskProject  
RiskSpecific Risks and Mitigation Measures
ER  Performance√The government does not participate in crediting programs. It does not run any risk 
of conflict with international or local partners. However, it remains responsible for 
achieving REDD+ results and meeting its NDC targets. Where the projects’ transfer 
of ERs involves corresponding adjustments, this could represent a risk to achieving 
its NDC targets, especially if the ER performance of projects is overestimated. This 
may be mitigated by:
·	 Designing a system that aligns ER claims of REDD+ projects with national 
GHG reporting.
√Projects are responsible for their own performance, including for the management 
of leakage and reversals. There is no link to government performance.
Financial  Risk √Only relevant for projects. The project must manage crediting and monetizing of 
ERs via private contracts as well as default risks.
Legal and  
Regulatory  
Risks√The government is liable for adopting and enforcing clear and transparent project 
rules, and running a smooth authorization system, in particular where project 
transfer of ERs involves corresponding adjustments.
Political  Risk √ √·	 There is no national benefit-sharing program that could result in conflict. 
Projects have their own benefit-sharing systems. Social unrest may occur 
if the benefit-sharing arrangements are perceived as being unfair, or if they 
are not adequately implemented. Governments can define safeguards and 
demand Free Prior Informed Consent (FPIC) for project benefit-sharing 
systems.  
Environmental 
Integrity Risk√ √The risk of double counting could occur if there is a geographical overlap between 
projects or their leakage belts. Risk of overestimation of ERs could occur if carbon 
accounting methodologies at the REDD+ project level are not accurate. This can be 
mitigated by:
·	Defining accurate and standardized carbon accounting methodologies for 
projects, including for the management of leakage.

--- PÁGINA 78 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers69
This part summarizes the administrative steps that 
need to be taken to implement nested REDD+. 
9. CONSULTATIONS ON THE 
ADOPTION OF A NESTED SYSTEM 
9.1 General Considerations
Negotiation, consensus-building, and agreements on 
the specific features of nesting are key to achieving 
a smooth and efficient nesting approach . However, 
stakeholder consultations on nesting may present 
features that render them particularly complex. For 
example:
·	 A high level of technicality.  Discussions about 
nesting often focus on technical aspects such as 
compatibility between existing voluntary project 
baselines and the national FREL, the development 
of jurisdictional baselines, or the allocation of 
a FREL to projects. These issues will need to 
be incorporated into the technical and policy 
nesting guidelines. This level of technicality adds 
complexity to consultations, and may result in few 
of the actors having a full understanding of the 
issues under discussion. 
·	 Deficiency in the understanding of nesting at 
the political level . Determining a nesting strategy 
is a highly political and strategic challenge for 
a government. In many cases, policymakers 
are insufficiently acquainted with the details of 
REDD+, and nesting issues are too complex for 
nonexperts to grasp. For example, the relevance 
of nesting for a country’s NDC is not always 
obvious. Furthermore, there is often a gap between 
the level of understanding that REDD+ project 
developers and public officials have. This gap often 
affects the quality of national discussions on 
nesting, and can produce delays in the adoption 
of decisions that must be taken by government on 
the most appropriate nesting strategy to use.·	 Complications for early-action projects. 
Addressing the nesting of early-action REDD+ 
projects is a difficult task. These projects were 
developed under voluntary carbon standards. 
They are often quite advanced in terms of their 
implementation, and project developers have 
performance and payment expectations that 
might be frustrated when their project is nested 
according to national rules. Furthermore, while 
in some countries early-action projects enjoy 
the full support of governments, in others they 
have been developed without consulting with the 
government and are therefore eyed suspiciously by 
the government. 
·	 Challenges in the timing of consultations . One 
common challenge is how to engage stakeholders 
in various ways during the national REDD+ 
process, and how to determine the ways in which 
various types of stakeholder engagement are most 
useful in the design and implementation process. 
Early engagement of existing private REDD+ 
projects and their beneficiaries in discussions with 
country officials builds trust and enables a mutual 
understanding of each other’s expectations and 
interests. The consultation process in nesting 
has often proven to be long and inefficient. This is 
often due to early consultations that are focused 
on issues such as the distribution of benefits or 
the implications of the national FREL for projects. 
Unless the government has a strategic plan on 
how to achieve benefits, consultations on benefit 
sharing may create false expectations and lead 
to future frustration. Consultations should follow 
a clearly communicated time plan. For example, 
before allocation methods are discussed or criteria 
are defined for benefit distribution, it is useful for 
a government to gather data and test scenarios.
·	 Sensitive social contexts.  In some cases, 
stakeholders do not take part in consultations 
because participating in them could represent a 
PART III NESTING 
IMPLEMENTATION

--- PÁGINA 79 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers70
risk in their immediate or near future. For example, 
local constituents may not be willing to provide 
their views in a public meeting in which authorities 
are present if they are afraid of reprisal.
Safeguard compliance is also part of a participatory 
approach to REDD+, which demands fair and 
accessible consultations.  Ill-conceived REDD+ 
programs and projects could harm communities, 
relevant stakeholders and beneficiaries, and generate 
perverse outcomes. When activities are rushed, 
there is often a failure to consult and obtain consent 
from relevant stakeholders. Stakeholder nesting 
consultations should be carefully designed, taking 
into consideration the historic and cultural contexts 
of countries. Within a REDD+ nesting framework, the 
consultation process needs to include several levels:
·	Private projects and their stakeholders, including 
potential beneficiaries.
·	Decentralized entities (provinces, municipalities, 
regions), and their stakeholders.
·	The national REDD+ program and its stakeholders.
At each of the above levels, the consultation process 
is essential in order to identify potential benefits and 
co-benefits, as well as the potential spillover effects 
of REDD+ programs and measures . Consultations are 
also essential for establishing a safeguard information 
system (SIS) and a feedback and grievance redress 
mechanism (FGRM). Countries with existing donor-
supported economic incentive schemes or other 
geographically bound forest-related economic 
activities, such as forest community concessions or 
payment-for-ecosystem services (PES) systems, can 
build on existing experiences with consultations.
9.2 Application to Nesting Approaches
Jurisdictional ER Program (Only), with Benefit 
Sharing
Public consultations involving all REDD+ stakeholders 
take place at the national level, as well as in the 
areas where REDD+ programs are being implemented. 
REDD+ consultation should operate similarly to 
consultations undertaken for other public policy 
programs. Because it is the government that controls 
the entire flow of REDD+ funds that the country 
can receive, consultations should focus on ensuring 
an understanding of their overall use; the possible 
creation of a national REDD+ fund and how it will be 
controlled; the geographic and social distribution of the funds; and their impact on the financing of 
existing policies, or those that will be established to 
foster a reduction in deforestation and to support 
conservation. In this model, where the state exercises 
full control over REDD+ resources, and where one 
of the main risks is the misuse of such resources, 
transparency about and understanding of the 
processes and channels of REDD+ fund disbursement 
are most likely to be the main purposes for public 
consultations. Consultations should also take place in 
those areas of the country where REDD+ activities are 
being implemented.   
Projetct Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional Program
Under the project crediting (only) approach, 
consultations take place mainly within REDD+ 
projects, to discuss issues such as the requirements 
related to safeguards and benefit sharing . The 
government may also wish to promote consistency 
across REDD+ projects, for example by imposing 
certain measurement, recording and verification 
(MRV) rules that also align with the national methods 
for estimating GHGs. The government should 
consult with project or program developers about 
the impact of any new MRV rules, or the feasibility 
of implementing safeguards, benefit-sharing 
arrangements, or other requirements.  
Centralized and Decentralized Nested Approaches
In both the centralized and decentralized nested 
approaches, a fair and inclusive consultation 
process is of the essence.  Consultation regarding 
nested models should take place both at the national 
level and directly with REDD+ projects and their 
stakeholders. They should begin with discussion 
of the overall objectives and design of the nested 
system. They should also involve the ultimate 
beneficiaries—communities, small farmers, private 
owners—and should clarify the implications of the 
nested system for the programs and projects in which 
they participate. Nesting consultations serve not 
only to guarantee the establishment of an approach 
that respects all rights and justified interests, but 
also to educate all stakeholders about the purposes, 
objectives, and procedures of REDD+ and nesting. 
Consultations should include technical discussions 
on FREL data and its use. Data used by REDD+ 
projects to make ER claims should be agreed upon. 
These early consultations should be led by the 
technical agencies and institutions in charge of 
REDD+ policies, and they should share their results 

--- PÁGINA 80 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers71
directly with project developers and investors. At this 
early stage of consultations, the purpose should be 
to obtain an agreement on existing data, as well as 
to identify gaps and understand the various nesting 
options and their implications for REDD+ projects or 
programs.
Once the discussions on technical data are 
complete, consultations may begin on any necessary 
“allocation” system . In the case of the centralized 
nested approach, this will be focused on the approach 
to ER allocation, whereas for a decentralized nested 
system the focus may be on the allocation of FRELs. 
For nested projects, it is important to understand 
the assumptions and criteria guiding the allocation 
methods, since they determine how benefits will flow 
to projects. Discussions may also include the risks of 
underperformance (as discussed in Section 8.2).  
Particular attention should be paid to finding a robust 
compromise on how to nest early-action projects, 
including by allowing for a transition period and for 
grandparenting existing transactions. The technical 
design of the allocation system should be led by 
technical experts and public officials. However, it 
should also involve the decision makers who will 
have to make the final decisions on the national 
nesting strategy, based on a full understanding of the 
implications of the various options. The participation 
of stakeholders in the development of allocation 
methods at an early stage will promote confidence in 
the system.
Project Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional Program
Under the project crediting (only) approach, 
consultations take place mainly within REDD+ 
projects, to discuss issues such as the requirements 
related to safeguards and benefit sharing . The 
government may also wish to promote consistency 
across REDD+ projects, for example to impose 
certain MRV rules that also align with the national 
methods for estimating GHGs. The government should 
consult with project or program developers about 
the impact of any new MRV rules, or the feasibility 
of implementing safeguards, benefit-sharing 
arrangements, or other requirements. Similarly, REDD+ 
projects should maintain a dialogue with government 
officials in order to be informed about, as well as to 
inform, the national requirements. The establishment 
of national procedures for consulting with project 
developers and other stakeholders concerning 
amendments to legislation relative to MRV, benefit 
77  Korhonen-Kurki, K., Brockhaus, M., Bushley, B., Babon, A., Gebara, M. F., Kengoum, F., et al. (2016). Coordination and Cross-Sectoral Integration in REDD+: Experiences from Seven Countries. 
Climate and Development 8 (5): 458–71.sharing, and safeguards provides additional certainty 
to REDD+ projects.
10. INSTITUTIONAL  
REQUIREMENTS FOR NESTING
In order for nesting to be implemented effectively, 
it is essential to assign clear responsibilities 
among ministries and public agencies for the 
operations related to the nesting process.  Successful 
implementation of REDD+ requires policy changes 
and governance reforms, in forestry as well as in 
other sectors—for example, to disburse REDD+ 
payments. However, weak forest governance in 
most of the REDD+ countries constitutes one of the 
main challenges for REDD+ implementation, carbon 
effectiveness, cost efficiency, and equity.77 What 
makes things even more complex is that REDD+ 
is inherently a multilevel endeavor; there is thus a 
need for policy coherence and coordination across 
the various levels of governance, as well as the 
relevant sectors in order to make it work. Nesting 
adds complexity to policymaking by requiring 
additional considerations regarding the integration 
of the various levels of MRV and carbon accounting, 
the grandparenting of early projects, and/or the 
management of risks.
Nested REDD+ policies should  therefore be supported 
by enduring institutional arrangements.
Institutional Assessment and the Allocation of 
Responsibilities
Institutions define who has the power to make 
decisions and who will have access to REDD+ 
benefits . These benefits may flow, for example, 
from international sources to national budgets, and 
from there to various stakeholders. Thus, nested 
approaches require procedures that allow for the flow 
of funds, the collection and analysis of information, 
and a way to link the national system to international 
reporting obligations. In all nested models, institutions 
are needed to manage the technical, financial, 
administrative, and supervisory aspects of REDD+ 
finance. The architecture that forms the nested 
system can build on existing institutions or create new 
ones. 
Institutional coordination for the implementation 
of nesting frameworks implies (i) an assessment of 
institutional needs; (ii) an assignment of regulatory 
and oversight responsibilities; (iii) the creation of new 

--- PÁGINA 81 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers72
institutional arrangements where needed; and (iv) the 
staffing and resourcing of institutions. 
Institutional Requirements: MRV and Accounting
Nested MRV should be embedded into national forest 
monitoring, which includes data collection for REDD+, 
as well as other domestic needs and international 
reporting commitments, such as UNFCCC or the Food 
and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations 
(FAO) Forest Resource Assessment . Additional 
institutional arrangements may be needed in order to 
manage the MRV and carbon accounting requirements 
of a nested system. A government may need to 
estimate emissions, establish baselines, and monitor 
REDD+ results—in some nested models, at multiple 
scales. 
There are some specific elements in the centralized 
nested, decentralized nested, and project-crediting 
(only) approaches that must also be considered in 
making institutional arrangements.  For example, 
under both the centralized and decentralized nested 
models, allocation systems—whether emission 
reduction (ER) or forest reference emissions levels 
(FREL)—must be designed and implemented. Data 
and information will be generated at multiple 
scales, from the project level to the national level. 
T o integrate, manage, and ensure the quality of this 
data and information, the government may need to 
have a quality data management system. It may also 
seize the opportunity to improve information in an 
integrated way, which would benefit both project-
scale and national-scale MRV systems. Governments 
should consider the institutional arrangements 
and responsibilities that are needed to make the 
nested system operational. When assigning nesting 
responsibilities, the government should take into 
consideration which of their national institutions have 
the capacities needed to implement the tasks, and 
then estimate the technical capacity gaps that will 
need to be covered.
Institutional Requirements: Benefit Sharing
Many forest countries suffer from limited 
administrative/technical capacity, which hinders 
the quick implementation of an effective, efficient, 
and equitable REDD+ program. In most cases, these 
countries do not have specific legislative frameworks 
that are adapted to regulating the allocation or 
distribution of REDD+ benefits and finance . While 
many countries have already started to implement 
REDD+ policies, the scarcity of resources and weak forest governance often slow the implementation 
of effective REDD+ frameworks. If countries opt for 
nesting in this context, they may permit projects 
to proceed while the national frameworks are being 
finalized so that early GHG gains can be achieved. In 
this situation, it may be advisable to define minimum 
benefit -sharing criteria for projects, and enact a 
simplified interim approval process that ensures that 
projects can transition into a fully nested system once 
the national systems are established. 
Under a jurisdictional ER program (only), with 
benefit sharing and centralized nested approaches, 
governments need to establish or appoint 
institutions to allocate and disburse both monetary 
and nonmonetary carbon benefits to projects . In the 
case of a centralized nested approach, the allocation 
of such benefits is contingent on projects having 
successfully reduced their GHG emissions. Some 
countries may have experience with payment-for-
ecosystem services (PES) and/or contractual models 
for distributing and assigning benefits that might 
be useful in the context of nesting. Other countries 
may have funds that are experienced in dispersing 
cash benefits for specific purposes (for example, in 
extractive industries) that can be used to support 
nested REDD+. Payments can either follow a budget 
or a trust fund approach. Under a budget approach, 
payments to projects should be structured through 
national budgets while avoiding extra-budgetary 
funds or earmarking. A trust fund approach, in 
contrast, ring-fences funds and may be useful where 
donors and recipients want to make sure that benefits 
for projects are safeguarded. (See Section 7.2 on risk 
management.)
Governments should execute contracts for early-
action projects that define the allocation of benefits 
and their conditions.  Individually negotiated 
agreements may allow the inclusion of early REDD+ 
projects in the first phase of nesting. Agreements 
between national authorities and projects can be 
a solid foundation that provides legal certainty 
to project developers regarding the conditions for 
accessing payments under a nesting system. 
Under a decentralized nested or project-crediting 
(only) model , projects are not included in the benefit-
sharing arrangements of the government . However, 
governments may require projects to meet regulatory 
demands: for example, reporting requirements on 
MRV-related data and information; requirements on 
disbursing REDD+ benefits to guarantee that local 
and Indigenous communities have access to them; or 

--- PÁGINA 82 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers73
specific requirements related to the implementation 
and reporting of data on the distribution of benefits to 
be incorporated in the safeguard information system. 
Such regulation requires additional government 
capacity, and a dedicated institutional structure in 
order to enforce such rules.
Institutional Requirements: Safeguards
Institutions play a role in ensuring the fair and 
effective design and implementation of the REDD+ 
safeguard approach, with respect to national 
safeguard policies and procedures, as well as the 
safeguard information system (SIS). Countries that 
have existing policies and regulations and REDD+ 
safeguards, including the specifications necessary for 
the nesting of projects and programs, should build on 
their existing frameworks. This includes regulations 
for the protection and consideration of ecosystem 
functions, forests, and biodiversity, as well as those 
that provide social protection, participation, and 
empowerment to the people. REDD+ safeguards 
also require systems for collecting and reporting 
the information that the country will need to report 
under the SIS. However, the country’s systems and 
institutions will need to be carefully assessed in order 
to determine how well they meet the requirements of 
the chosen nesting approach. 
Under the centralized model, nesting does not 
demand additional safeguard requirements beyond 
those established in the context of national REDD+ 
implementation . This includes any procedures 
adopted to meet the requirements for particular 
donors and funding streams. Donors may also require 
the establishment of new institutional requirements, 
such as a feedback and grievance redress mechanism 
(FGRM). Under the project-crediting-only approach, 
such adjustments are not necessary, and the 
safeguard requirements for projects follow the existing 
national safeguard policies and procedures, or the 
requirements of the carbon standard certifications 
they seek. 
Both the centralized and decentralized nested models 
require the involvement of actors at multiple levels 
who will develop and implement the nested projects.  
The national safeguards are government policies that 
apply to all REDD+ national activities. In the context of 
such safeguards, a government might wish to provide 
details on how nested projects and programs can 
fulfill national safeguard policies. It may also clarify 
which authorities are in charge of enforcing such rules. 
Nested projects should also be reported under the SIS. Authorities can create an information platform and can 
engage in outreach activities to ensure that projects 
are aware of safeguards requirements. It can also help 
projects provide relevant information to the SIS by 
developing templates to facilitate effective use of the 
project information, setting up reporting procedures, 
and establishing quality control mechanisms. 
Institutional Requirements: Registries
Nested systems require a data management system, 
and in some cases an additional transaction registry 
(see Section 9).  REDD+ data management may 
be linked to GHG recording and tracking systems 
that are set up for other sectors. But registries 
in existing GHG trading and transaction systems 
follow different institutional models. While some 
regulators have assigned the registry to a government 
agency—generally the agency that is in charge of 
environmental issues—others have mandated a range 
of independent and reliable third parties.  
Countries can also decide to outsource registry 
functions.  The World Bank is offering such services 
to REDD+ countries through its transaction registry 
platform. During a transitional period, projects 
could also use the accredited registries of voluntary 
standards, and issue credits under those standards. 
Then, once a national (or subnational) trading 
registry is in place, the accredited registries under 
the voluntary standard could either be linked to or 
integrated into the national registry. 
11. REGULATIONS  AND  
APPROVALS
11.1 General Considerations
Regulations and approvals facilitate the 
implementation of any REDD+ system . Clear rules 
offer REDD+ actors legal certainty. Within the context 
of the REDD+ regulatory framework, a country’s 
nesting strategy and benefit-sharing arrangements 
may need to be translated into a legal act. Nested 
models that officially approve projects must define 
the requirements that projects and project developers 
are required to meet in order to be formally recognized 
by the government. Nesting also requires adoption 
of the procedures by which projects will be nested in 
national systems. Once there is more clarity under 
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, procedures will also 
have to cover the reporting necessary to undertake 
corresponding adjustments, to the extent they apply.

--- PÁGINA 83 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers74
REDD+ Regulation
Nested REDD+ is inherently a multilevel endeavor; 
thus, there is a need for policy coherence and 
coordination across the various levels of governance 
and agencies in order for it to work . Nesting brings 
another level into an already complex international, 
national, and subnational sphere of decision making. 
A country may need legislative changes in order to 
provide the necessary legal endorsement and capacity 
to administer REDD+-related activities and funds. 
Even in cases where the government does not decide 
to authorize carbon projects as part of the country’s 
REDD+ strategy, it will have to establish the legal basis 
for implementation of the benefit-sharing and registry 
arrangements, and consultation requirements. 
Project and Program Approvals 
A regulation that officially approves projects and 
programs could establish the purpose for nesting.  
Such a regulation can provide clarity for potential 
project developers on the objectives that the 
government is pursuing in recognizing projects as 
part of its REDD+ strategy—for example, facilitating 
nonstate engagement in REDD+, empowering 
communities, mobilizing investment for the forest 
sector, supporting the achievement of the country’s 
nationally determined contribution (NDC), and so 
on—and define how projects can apply for inclusion 
in the program. Such a regulation should include the 
types of projects and actors that can be authorized 
to nest projects or programs; the conditions for doing 
so, including the technical specifications concerning 
baselines; and the criteria a project must comply 
with in order to remain in the program; for example, 
measurement, reporting, and verification (MRV) and 
safeguard requirements. 
Approval procedures link projects, MRV, and benefit-
sharing arrangements . Such procedures can be used as 
a tool for translating the benefit-sharing arrangements 
into the regulatory context of the country. Depending 
on the nesting approach, this may include the allocation 
of credits or funding to projects, or the authorization 
to commercialize project ERs, possibly up to a defined 
cap. They may also implement the risk management 
approaches of the government (see Section 7.2); define 
the consequences of jurisdictional underperformance 
for REDD+ projects; and instruct projects on the use 
of an approved registry. They also include procedures 
regarding the authority in charge, deadlines, appeals, 
and so on. (See Box 10 ).
78  Resolution NO. 1447 August 1st, 2018 on National mitigation action monitoring, reporting and verification system mentioned in article 175 of Act 1753 of 2015.
79  Art. 28. and ss. Ibid.Box 10: Summary of Approval Requirements
Government tasks concerning the eligibility of projects 
and programs, as well as the continued compliance of 
nested activities include:
·	 Defining ex ante  criteria (including definitions and 
protocols) that projects and programs must meet 
in order to qualify for nesting;
·	 Defining ongoing MRV and safeguards 
requirements for projects and programs;
·	 Allocation of baselines;
·	 Adopting and disseminating the approved 
eligibility and compliance rules;
·	 Ensuring a swift approval process and continued 
enforcement of rules;
·	 Defining the rules for transitioning early-action 
projects into a nested system;
·	 Coordinating with various agencies to ensure full 
complementarity and consistency of the rules with 
other environmental and social regulations.
By June 2021, few countries had presented project 
approval procedures for nesting (see Box 11).  
Countries that do not yet have project approval 
procedures in place but are preparing its drafting can 
draw on experiences such as the clean development 
mechanism (CDM) approval procedures. While REDD+ 
requires material provisions that differ from CDM, 
particularly regarding MRV and benefit allocation, the 
basic procedures of project approval are similar.
Box 11 What Types of Approval Procedures 
Are Countries Developing?
One of the most comprehensive legal frameworks 
for nesting is in Colombia; it has been used as an 
example of transparency and recognition for REDD+ 
projects.78 The Colombian regulation applies to all 
individuals or legal entities, public or private, that 
intend to register their GHG mitigation initiative in 
order  to participate in results-based finance (RBF) or 
similar compensations, as well as those who intend 
to register in order to demonstrate mitigation results 
within the framework of compliance. The regulation 
applies to all types of ER activities, but contains 
specific and detailed provisions on REDD+ programs 
and projects.79 It offers very precise guidelines on 
the nesting of REDD+ programs; REDD+ projects; the 
overlapping of REDD+ programs and projects; and the 

--- PÁGINA 84 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers75
procedures for excluding REDD+ projects from REDD+ 
programs, as well as provisions that are applicable 
to the registration of ongoing REDD+ projects. For 
this last case, the regulation includes grandparenting 
provisions that are applicable to existing REDD+ 
projects, by which the state determines the GHG 
mitigation potential for the period from January 2016 
to December 2019.80
Countries like the Democratic Republic of Congo 
(DRC) and Mozambique have also adopted REDD+ 
legislation that includes partial procedures on the 
nesting of programs and projects, albeit with less 
detail than Colombia’s.81 Mozambique’s legislation 
sets out in considerable detail the requirements that 
must be observed by holders of state-issued licenses 
to carry out REDD+ projects in the country, and the 
validity of those licenses. Rules also establish that 
the boundaries of REDD+ projects have to align with 
the boundaries of municipalities.82 In the Democratic 
Republic of Congo (DRC) REDD+ regulation procedures, 
the country has specified very general guidelines for 
the approval of REDD+ and projects.83
NDCs and Corresponding Adjustments
For most developing countries with significant 
forests, REDD+ is part of their strategy for meeting 
their NDCs . Where the transfer of ERs in the form of 
an International Transferable Mitigation Outcome 
(ITMO) under Article 6.2 or 6.4 of the Paris Agreement 
occurs, a corresponding adjustment (CA) is necessary. 
Parties account for these transfers in order to 
ensure the avoidance of double counting.84 It is not 
entirely clear yet which metrics CAs will use, nor is 
the basis for accounting clear; that is, against which 
parameters they will be accounted. Another open 
question is whether CAs should occur at the end of 
the parties’ implementation periods, or continuously 
throughout the duration of the project. In general, 
at the time of writing this report, CAs remain poorly 
understood. 
However, governments will have to keep in mind that 
a new reporting framework may need to be created 
for the purposes of consolidating the various streams 
of information and reporting to UNFCCC, including 
for CAs. Some  nested projects may also demand 
or require CAs outside of Article 6 transactions, 
for example in the context of CORSIA. Under some 
circumstances, countries and corporations may agree 
80  Art. 40 and 41. Ibid.
81  Decreto n.º 23/2018 de 3 de Maio: Regulamento para Programas e Projectos Inerentes à Redução de Emissões por Desmatamento e Degradação Florestal de Carbono (REDD+).
82  Art. 19 of Decreto n.º 23/2018 de 3 de Maio: Regulamento para Programas e Projectos Inerentes à Redução de Emissões por Desmatamento e Degradação Florestal de Carbono (REDD+) 
refers to the prohibition of nesting projects within existing programs in certain cases but it is not clear in its scope and does not offer neat criteria.
83  9 mai 2018. – Arrêté Ministériel n° 047/CAB/MIN/EDD/AAN/MML/05/2018  fixant la procédure d’homologation des investissements REDD+ en République Démocratique du Congo.
84  paragraph 36, Decision 1/CP.21to CAs in cases where the government, corporate 
investors, or standards require them. 
Corresponding adjustments may eventually 
become relevant to all nested REDD+ models . If the 
government enters into an Article 6.2 Paris Agreement 
transaction with a partner country, CAs will need 
to be made to reflect ERs authorized for use toward 
another party’s NDC. In this case, REDD+ projects can 
form part of such a collaborative approach, and can 
demand CAs. In the case of the decentralized nested 
or project-crediting (only) approach, CAs might be 
necessary under certain circumstances, but this is 
still under discussion (see Section 3.4 for more detail.) 
In such cases the country may want to promote 
alignment in the ER transactions under Article 6 and 
NDC accounting, and record their transactions in the 
data management system or transaction registry. 
This will require significant capacities, resources, and 
procedures; however, few of the requirements will be 
specific to nested REDD+. 
11.2 Application to Nesting Approaches
Jurisdictional ER Program Only
Under a jurisdictional-only crediting approach, 
in which the government centralizes the design, 
implementation, and monetization of REDD+, the 
government has to implement the benefit- sharing 
arrangements through one, or several, regulatory 
acts. The government is not required to adopt 
procedures for projects. However, it has to establish 
the legal basis for the arrangements, that is how 
carbon finance will be distributed among national 
institutions and national actors. Within that 
regulation it should also establish timelines, the 
areas to be financed, and the eventual conditions for 
access to financing as part of the benefit-sharing 
arrangements. 
Centralized or Decentralized Nesting Approaches
REDD+ regulation should define the conditions, 
rights, and obligations of nested projects and 
programs . Approval procedures need to contain at 
a minimum (i) the actors and projects authorized to 
nest projects or programs; (ii) the conditions for doing 
so, including any technical specifications concerning 
baselines and other MRV aspects; safeguards 
compliance; benefit sharing by projects; and any 
definition of liabilities that could be incurred by the 

--- PÁGINA 85 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers76
government or the REDD+ projects and programs; (iii) 
in the case of centralized nesting, the implications 
of underperformance; (iv) the conditions applicable 
to existing REDD+ initiatives and the eventual 
transitional period; (v) the conditions for the opening 
of private accounts in the national registry, if such a 
registry exists (or the authorization to use external 
registries); (vi) rules regarding the involvement of 
carbon-rights holders (communities and Indigenous 
peoples); and (vii) the procedures for approvals (the 
authority in charge, deadlines, appeals or contesting 
of national nesting decisions, etc.).
Project Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional Program
Although project crediting (only) recognizes that 
REDD+ projects can generate carbon credits unilaterally and can monetize them, the government 
may adopt program rules intended to regulate such 
projects. Such rules could align project ER claims 
with the national MRV system and national reporting 
requirements. In such cases, the government should 
also establish procedures indicating the obligations 
projects have with respect to MRV. A country may also 
pass regulations for safeguard application or benefit-
sharing rules to ensure that affected communities are 
provided with a fair share of proceeds from carbon 
sales. Along with this, the country should approve 
the procedures for projects to access the national 
transaction registry if it opts for the creation of one; 
and the opening of private accounts or, alternately, 
reporting requirements into a data management 
system if applicable.


--- PÁGINA 86 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers77
12. REGISTRIES
12.1 General Considerations
Countries that engage in nested REDD+ may need 
to develop GHG accounting and tracking systems to 
ensure consistency between national, jurisdictional, 
and project-level processes and results . These 
systems would consist, at a minimum, of data 
management systems that systematically record 
and monitor information to ensure transparency and 
consistency, and in some instances to avoid the double 
counting or double sale of ERs. 
If countries seek to engage in market-based 
transactions (including REDD+ or other forest 
carbon units), they will need a  registry to allow for 
the unique identification and tracking  of carbon 
units.  Such registries are important in order to 
track transactions between different accounts within 
one registry, as well as between different national or 
international registries. The government will also have 
to establish protocols to ensure the “conversion” of 
carbon credits into fungible units, or, alternatively, to 
allow for units to be traded within the same system.  
In some cases, a government will not need to develop 
a transaction registry . Governments can engage 
in results-based finance (RBF ) without generating 
transferable carbon credits. In addition, voluntary 
carbon credits  can be tracked in third-party registries; 
for example, Verra  operates a registry for verified 
carbon units generated under its  Verified Carbon 
Standard (VCS) program. In such cases, a national  
emissions trading registry is not needed; a simple 
data management  system is sufficient to fulfill the 
requirements of a nested  system that is comprised of 
national nonmarket payment for results , combined with 
voluntary carbon crediting . 
Box 12 summarizes the main questions policymakers 
should consider when making decisions about the 
development of a registry or data management 
system.Box 12  Considerations When Deciding 
on a Registry System
A country that is contemplating a nested REDD+ 
approach needs to consider the following questions 
regarding the accounting and tracking of carbon 
credits:
·	 Does the country need a full transaction registry, 
or would a data management system, potentially 
with a link to existing voluntary carbon market 
registries or other international carbon registries 
(like the carbon registry under the FCPF Carbon 
Fund) be sufficient?
·	 Does the country already have a GHG registry for 
nonforest sectors? If so, is expanding this registry 
to include REDD+ units a preferred option?
·	 Does the country foresee including the accounts 
of public or private nonstate actors (subnational, 
private, or not-for-profit entities) in a national 
trading system?
·	 Does the country have the institutional 
capabilities for operating a transaction registry, 
including the necessary security provisions and 
protocols? If not, are there operational third-party 
systems that could provide registry services?
·	 Does the country foresee any type of internal 
carbon market in which carbon units (forestry or 
others) will be eligible as offsets?
·	 Which government institution is best suited to 
maintaining and operating a data management 
system, or transaction registry?
·	 Which legal provisions will be necessary in order 
to establish a data management system or 
transaction registry?
·	 What risks need to be considered and managed?
·	 Will there be enough ER transactions in the 
country to justify the costs of setting up and 
operating a transaction registry?

--- PÁGINA 87 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers78
Data Management Systems and Transaction 
Registries
The complexity of data management, accounting, 
and tracking systems depends on the number 
of accounting levels there are in the national 
implementation of REDD+, and which of these levels 
are linked to carbon markets.85 Carbon accounting 
and incentive allocation frameworks are a central 
component of REDD+ mitigation programs, and in 
structuring these frameworks decisions need to be 
made about how to reach the REDD+ objectives in 
a timely, economically efficient, and socially and 
environmentally sustainable manner. Establishing 
accounting frameworks at the project and program 
levels may form part of the public system of benefit 
sharing, or it can help to facilitate direct private sector 
investments into voluntary carbon market projects. 
Nested REDD+ requires the consolidation of data 
from projects and programs at both the subnational 
and national levels, and checking their compliance 
with nesting rules. The government will also have 
to consolidate MRV information, and apply fair 
and transparent program rules that handle the 
overlapping programs or projects that are responsible 
for maintaining the environmental integrity of the 
ERs claimed. Such approaches could deduct the 
ERs that are earned by lower-level programs from a 
national total; cap the ERs that lower-level programs 
can claim; or exclude areas covered by subnational 
programs or projects from the national accounting. 
While the participation in public results-based 
finance (RBF) programs will not require the 
establishment of full registry capacities, the 
nesting of projects adds a layer of  complexity to 
carbon tracking and accounting that may require 
additional data management . A data management 
system can fulfill several program and project-
level tracking functions, such as collecting basic 
information about project-level activities or 
subnational programs, and recording applicable 
safeguards and technical requirements, land-use 
rights, distribution of benefits, or other information.  
It may evolve over time as REDD+ continues to develop 
and be  implemented. Tracking systems can be created 
at the subnational level instead of, or in addition to the 
national level.  
Registries that help manage Article 6, or CORSIA 
units, would have to link to NDC accounting in order 
85  For a general overview of registry options, see “Partnership for Market Readiness; Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. ” 2016. Emissions Trading Registries: Guidance on Regulation, Development 
and Administration . Washington DC: World Bank. available at http:/ /hdl.handle.net/10986/25142to make corresponding adjustments . Under the 
Paris Agreement, the use of international transfers 
toward NDCs is voluntary, and must be “authorized by 
participating Parties. ” The approval of Article 6 rules 
is expected to provide more clarity on carbon market 
transactions. 
Registries are not specific to REDD+, and many 
countries are in the process of establishing 
transaction registries for other sectors. Where such 
registries already exist, or are being developed, it is 
not necessary to establish a separate REDD+ registry. 
Rather, the existing registry can simply be expanded 
to include REDD+ units. This ensures the efficient use 
of institutional capacities, promotes the harmonized 
use of security protocols, and, most importantly, 
facilitates the consistent accounting and tracking of 
carbon units. This is particularly important in cases 
where a country already has a carbon trading system 
that covers the forest sector (see Box 13 below).
The registry will need to manage the risks of 
permanence, project or program leakage, and/
or national underperformance . Such risks can be 
managed, for example, with buffer accounts through 
which a portion of the ERs are held to cover the risk of 
reversal (as is done in the FCPF Carbon Fund and the 
Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) of the Jurisdictional 
and Nested REDD+ (JNR). The national registry can 
adopt procedures that enable the application of buffer 
accounts. It would have to establish and manage such 
accounts at the entity or project level, or pool them 
across all registered projects and programs: a pooled 
buffer provides additional assurance that risks at the 
project or program level can be managed.
Managing registry systems requires significant 
capabilities. Countries may consider approaching 
entities such as the World Bank, or private operators 
that offer registry solutions. These solutions can be 
tailored to a country’s specific registry needs, and can 
help ensure compliance with the necessary security 
protocols. For example, a country might not need a 
fully elaborated transaction registry, but may want to 
be able to transfer carbon credits to market buyers in 
a safe environment. In this case outsourced solutions 
may be adequate, and can help the government avoid 
the effort and expense of establishing its own national 
registry. The outsourcing of registry functions can 
also be considered as a temporary solution until the 
country has set up its own national registry.

--- PÁGINA 88 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers79
Box 13:  What Types of Registries are 
Countries Developing?
The type of registry and/or database system that a 
country needs depends on the REDD+ implementation 
approach selected by the country. Several examples 
are provided below:
·	 New Zealand issues carbon units for avoided 
deforestation, to be traded under the New 
Zealand Emissions Trading System (NZ ETS). It 
operates a full transaction registry that is linked 
to the Kyoto Protocol registry under UNFCCC via 
the International Transaction Log.86 
·	 Colombia allows the use of forest offsets under 
its carbon tax program. It launched its National 
Register of GHG Emissions Reductions (Registro 
Nacional de Reducción de Emisiones de Gases 
Efecto Invernadero, or RENARE) in September 
2020.87 This register consolidates carbon 
project information and accounts for ERs from 
registered projects all in one place. Operated 
through a web-based platform, RENARE defines 
the national MRV system that is applicable to all 
mitigation activities in the country.88 Colombia 
requires REDD+ projects to have a mechanism for 
managing the risk of the nonpermanence of ERs; it 
does not include a pooled buffer in its system. 
·	 Mozambique’s REDD+ regulation states that 
it intends to develop a REDD+ transaction 
registry or, if the national transaction registry 
is not in operation at the time of the relevant 
transaction, the country could approve an 
alternate ER transaction registry approved 
by the government. The country’s transaction 
registry has not yet been operationalized. The 
Mozambique regulation stipulates the creation 
of single accounts per project and program, 
and requires the establishment of single-buffer 
accounts (there is no intention of having a pooled 
buffer).89 
86  https:/ /www.epa.govt.nz/industry-areas/emissions-trading-scheme/the-emissions-trading-register/
87  https:/ /www.minambiente.gov.co/index.php/noticias-minambiente/4497-renare-plataforma-para-registrar-reducciones-gases-efecto-invernadero
88  http:/ /renare.siac.gov.co/GPY-web/#/ingresar
89  Art 27 and ss. Decree n.º 23/2018, Regulation for the Implementation of Projects Inherent to the Reduction of Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, Conservation and 
Increase of Carbon Stocks.
90   Additional Final Rule, 4, Law N.30754 -2018, Climate Change Law Framework.
91  Ministerial Resolution No. 197-2016. Ministry of Environment.
92  ER Program: Reducing Emissions from San Martin and Ucayali in the Peruvian Amazon. Peru, June 2019.
93  The FCPF Carbon Fund is currently preparing the User Guidelines, Business Plan, and Operational Guidelines. These documents have not been analyzed in the preparation of the present 
document.·	 Guatemala is developing a regulation, in 
accordance with their Climate Change Law 
Framework90 and their National REDD+ Registry 
resolution,91 that focuses on the development of a 
national database management system; it does 
not intend to create a transaction registry. 
·	 Peru intends to create both a database system 
and a transaction registry (the National 
Mitigation Measures Registry), which will be 
linked to the Registry of Retribution Mechanisms 
for Ecosystem Services with respect to carbon 
sequestration and storage. Their registry 
will recognize ERs from international carbon 
standards, and their conversion to national 
carbon credits, for the purpose of international 
transfers or NDC compliance, and will be 
implemented by IHS Markit.92
The technical, operational, and financial requirements 
for operating a transaction registry have led most 
countries participating in the FCPF Carbon Fund to 
choose not to develop an internal transaction registry, 
and to use instead, at least in the first phase, the 
transaction registry that is being designed by the 
World Bank. This registry could become the standard 
registry to be used in the long term; it is open to both 
countries and other entities, that is, to buyers and 
sellers, outside the FCPF Carbon Fund.93


--- PÁGINA 89 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers80
12.2 Jurisdictional ER Program (Only), with 
Benefit Sharing
The jurisdictional-only crediting approach requires 
only a simple accounting system . In this model, the 
government accounts for ERs at the national level, and 
may decide to issue carbon credits and transfer them 
to international accounts. The state is the sole owner 
of ERs; the primary recipient of results-based finance 
(RBF) and carbon finance; and it retains the right to 
generate and market ERs. For countries that wish 
to participate in markets, Annex I registries, which 
exclude the clean development mechanism (CDM)/ 
Joint Implementation (JI)  functionality, may serve as 
a model.
If a country only anticipates participating 
in nonmarket RBF, it may only need a data 
management system . Because there are few 
technical and financial requirements for operating 
such an accounting system, in this case the country 
would not need a transaction registry.  A simple 
data management system would help to keep track 
of ERs, and would be likely to generally satisfy 
donor demands for RBF . Such a system could also 
incorporate details about the programs and activities 
implemented at the national, subnational, or site-
specific levels, as well as information concerning the 
types of activities implemented, the areas they cover, 
the number of beneficiaries, and the types of benefits 
they receive, as well as the status of activities under 
implementation. Such a system could complement the 
safeguard information system (SIS) as a transparency 
information tool.
Centralized Nested Approach
Under the centralized nested approach, at a 
minimum, a data management system with the 
functionality for tracking ER performance at the 
project level is needed.  The registry will not need to 
feature accounts for private sector project proponents 
if they implement REDD+ but they are not issued 
forest carbon credits. However, information about the 
performance achieved by specific entities—based on 
the criteria of the ER allocation system—should be 
recorded. The data in the data management system 
would provide the basis for the distribution of benefits 
to approved projects.
Decentralized Nested Approach
The decentralized nested approach requires a 
transaction registry, although a country may use a third-party registry, combined with a national 
data management system, to fulfill this obligation. 
Since this approach allows the direct marketing of 
ERs by private entities, the registry requirements 
are more stringent. The government needs to keep 
track of government and project GHG performance 
(at a minimum with a data management system), 
while private entities can hold their own accounts for 
tracking and commercializing ERs. If nested projects 
sell ERs into carbon markets, the transaction registry 
needs to record such transactions—but this can be 
done by a third-party registry. 
Under a decentralized nested approach, the tracking 
of units may require the ability to recognize, hold, 
and convert various units . Private sector accounts 
will need to be integrated (nested) into the national 
or subnational REDD+ framework. This requires 
significant administrative capacity and resources, 
and should be done only after a careful cost-
benefit analysis. Augmenting the number of market 
participants greatly increases the cost and complexity 
of monitoring and verifying ER activities, and tracking 
the ownership and use of forest carbon credits. REDD+ 
countries will need to determine whether they can 
feasibly develop this capacity, and if so, the extent 
to which the benefits of private sector involvement 
outweigh the added transaction costs.  The integration 
of private accounts into a national tracking system 
(whether a data management system or a registry) 
also calls for enhanced security and data protection.
The government may also outsource some or all 
functionalities of the registry to other registries or 
registry providers. As mentioned above, credits can be 
issued to the accredited registries of standards that 
are used by projects or jurisdictional programs. Thus, 
a country can start with just a data management 
system, which can evolve into a more sophisticated 
transaction registry over time. Once a national (or 
subnational) transaction registry is in place, the 
accredited voluntary standard registries could either 
be linked with, or integrated into, the national registry.
Project Crediting (Only), No Jurisdictional Program
In cases where only projects are generating tradable 
ERs, if private projects sell ERs under Article 6.2 
or Article 6.4 of the Paris Agreement to foreign 
buyers, or if they are authorized to generate ERs 
with corresponding adjustments, at a minimum, a 
data management system is needed. The government 
must be able to receive and process the information 
necessary to make corresponding adjustments and to 

--- PÁGINA 90 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers81
ensure robust NDC accounting. Under a decentralized 
approach, a country might also want to adopt a 
system for tracking information on its various REDD+ 
initiatives and projects, and for compiling information 
about project transactions.
Private entity transactions of carbon credits also 
need access to a transaction registry and to its associated accounts.  The government can recognize 
the registries of approved carbon standards, and/
or can establish its own transaction registry and 
authorize private entities to open an account in 
it. This may be an option if the country already 
operates a transaction registry for other sectors, or 
if it integrates REDD+ projects in a national carbon 
market.
T able 12 Types of Registries Linked to Various Nesting Models
Nesting 
ModelDescription Country 
ExamplesRegistry ImplicationsJurisdictional-crediting 
(only)The government 
records ERs at the 
national level. It may 
issue carbon credits 
and transfer them to 
international accounts. Ecuador, where 
forest carbon 
credits are only 
issued at the 
national level.·	A simple, single-account system where the national 
government is the sole owner of forest carbon credits.
·	Few technical and financial needs for operating the account 
system.
·	Where forest carbon credits are transferred to international 
sovereign buyers, a link to the registries of buyer countries 
might be useful.
·	A data management system can incorporate additional 
information, such as benefit-sharing implementation. Centralized- nested 
modelThe government 
records ERs at the 
national level. It also 
records the data 
necessary to operate 
the ER allocation to 
projects/programs.DRC, Mozambique, 
Brazil (sharing of 
ERs with states)·	Nested projects have specific accounts for recording 
performance (as input to ER allocation). 
·	Where forest carbon credits are transferred to international 
sovereign buyers, a link to the registries of buyer countries 
might be useful.
·	Transactions from nested projects that participate in selling 
ER to voluntary markets can be tracked.Decentralized-nested modelNational and REDD+ 
project ERs need to be 
tracked.Cambodia, 
Colombia·	A transaction registry with private accounts is needed 
where ERs are being transacted in markets.
·	Countries can allow REDD+ projects to be registered under 
third-party registries. Once a national transaction registry 
is in place, the registries are linked, or integrated into the 
national registry.
·	The functioning of a transaction registry requires technical 
and financial capacities. This can either be established 
within the country, or it can be outsourced.Project-crediting (only)Only projects 
commercialize ERs, 
which requires trackingNew Zealand ·	A transaction registry is required for transactions of private 
entities; a third-party registry can be used for voluntary 
markets.
·	A national registry is needed in the context of a national 
carbon accounting standard or market.
·	The government can also operate a data management 
system to record information about national projects and 
their GHG performance.