DOCUMENTO: Nesting-of-REDD-Initiatives-Manual-for-Policymakers (1)
PARTE 5 de 7
Páginas 61 a 75
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 61 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers52
6.1 General Considerations
In the context of REDD+, benefit sharing refers to the 
sharing of benefits that accrue from results-based 
and carbon finance from programs and projects. 
Governments and private entities that benefit from 
results-based finance (RBF), or that sell emission 
reductions (ERs) allocate a portion of the proceeds 
from these transactions to private and community 
actors. Such benefits can be either monetary or 
nonmonetary, and governments can distribute them 
as part of their defined benefit sharing arrangements. 
In addition, they can allocate the right to monetize 
ERs. The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) has 
published a guidance for countries on how to develop 
fair and effective benefit sharing arrangements,56 and 
has collected good practices in benefit sharing.57   
When engaging in REDD+ implementation, 
policymakers have to decide where and how 
communities and individuals will benefit from the 
monetary and/or nonmonetary incentives of REDD+.   
Effective allocation of incentives is essential in order 
to create an effective REDD+ system and to achieve 
sustainable results. Carbon rights are important 
considerations when designing a benefit-sharing 
system. However, benefit-sharing arrangements 
can calibrate carbon rights – and the related legal 
constructs -- such as land or tree ownership, 
customary or ancestral rights, and the ability to 
relate to ecosystem services against notions of equity 
and fairness in the discussion of carbon rights and 
the ensuing benefit-sharing decisions. Stakeholder 
consultations and participatory decisions are essential 
in creating a stable benefit-sharing system. 
Countries should consider developing a benefit-
sharing framework that can apply to all REDD+ 
projects and programs, and enable them to develop 
specific benefit-sharing arrangements. Many 
countries are operating multiple REDD+ programs 
—such as the FCPF Carbon Fund and the Green 
Climate Fund (GCF)—as well as various bilateral 
donor-supported programs and voluntary market 
projects. They may want to consider applying one 
consistent approach rather than making ad hoc  
decisions regarding benefit sharing in response 
to each source of financing. Having different, and 
sometimes conflicting, policy decisions with respect 
to the interpretation of carbon rights, and allocating 
benefits and risks differently, can create confusion. 
56  https:/ /www.forestcarbonpartnership.org/bio-carbon/en/bd-bs-mechanism.html  Note: These are currently being used for benefit sharing of first payments from the FCPF Carbon Fund, so 
they still need to be tested.
57 https:/ /openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/32765 )Furthermore, countries that are experimenting with 
different benefit-sharing arrangements at the project 
and program levels will find it challenging to scale 
them up to the national level if they are not supported 
by consistent policy and benefit-sharing principles. 
Incentives and Benefit-Sharing Frameworks
Governments might want to consider whether, and if 
so how, to link rewards and incentives (benefits) to 
ER performance. When elaborating a benefit-sharing 
framework, governments have to balance the need 
to finance national policies with creating local-level 
incentives for private investors and communities. 
They are faced with the challenge of evaluating where, 
how, and by whom deforestation can be reduced. 
This implies making decisions about how to reward 
those who are actively contributing to it. Generating 
ERs requires participatory consultations with the 
stakeholders who are eligible for benefit sharing. 
Considerations of, for example, the historic and 
cultural aspects of Indigenous communities may also 
be needed. A government might also decide to use 
REDD+ benefits to contribute to harmonized regional 
development, by guaranteeing minimum percentages 
of benefits to regions. For these reasons, participatory 
consultations are essential in the decision making 
and design of a benefit-sharing framework. They 
help to create stakeholder support and ownership 
for the REDD+ initiatives, clarify roles, and provide 
an understanding of the types of monetary and 
nonmonetary incentives to be shared with the 
beneficiaries.
There are multiple ways to structure benefit sharing. 
The distribution of monetary and nonmonetary 
benefits by the government is the most common way 
to distribute benefits in the context of jurisdictional 
REDD+. Nested REDD+ offers the additional option of 
providing direct incentives through the authorization 
and integration of project-level carbon finance into 
a REDD+ system. Governments will also have to put 
into place the institutional and policy frameworks 
that are required to implement the benefit-sharing 
instruments and to disburse payments. Some 
countries may already have such policies and 
institutional frameworks in place; for example, there 
may be a functioning national payment-for-ecosystem 
(PES) services system that could be used for the 
implementation of REDD+ benefit sharing.6. BENEFIT SHARING

--- PÁGINA 62 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers53
Governments may decide to establish incentives to 
protect forests in the form of either ex ante  finance 
or ex post  rewards.58 In the case of ex ante  finance, 
they can provide upfront financing to actors in order 
to change behavior and contribute to ERs, with the 
expectation that REDD+ results-based finance (RBF) 
will retroactively compensate the government for 
such expenses, and/or enable an increase in ambition 
over time. In the case of ex post  finance, a system 
is set up to provide incentives linked to REDD+ 
performance. In this case, there are additional options 
with regard to how closely such rewards are linked 
to greenhouse gas (GHG) performance metrics, and 
whether nested projects are paid per generated ERs 
achieved, or they receive an allocation of ERs based on 
the GHG performance at the national or subnational 
level. Countries could also combine ex ante  finance 
to support national actors in the initial stages of 
implementing REDD+ RBF, with ex post  rewards in 
subsequent phases of REDD+ RBF implementation.
A government benefit-sharing framework should 
also consider rewarding the stewards of forests 
and ecosystems, such as Indigenous peoples and 
local communities.  A country can decide to assign 
ER benefits to certain categories of actors, for 
example Indigenous peoples or local communities, 
independently of their contribution to forest 
conservation, for reasons of equity or poverty 
reduction. Such is the case in the Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC), where there are fixed percentages of 
benefits allocated to Indigenous communities under 
the benefit-sharing plan adopted in the context of 
the FCPF ER program. Indigenous peoples that hold 
ancestral rights over the land and have a long history 
as stewards of forests have often had a history of 
being marginalized. REDD+ benefit sharing offers an 
opportunity to reward them for their role as guardians 
of the forests. Governments will also have to invest 
in conservation efforts to avoid future deforestation 
frontiers. In such cases—where considerations 
beyond GHG performance are considered—nested 
forest carbon projects may receive fewer benefits 
(whether in terms of ERs or funding) than they could 
potentially secure if they were to market all their ERs 
independently. 
There is a continuum regarding how closely, or 
directly, incentives are tied to the generation of 
ERs. For example, in the case of ex ante  finance, the 
link is weak, since the incentives are provided before 
GHG performance is known. In the case of ex pos t 
rewards, the link is obviously stronger if rewards are 
58  For more detail, and a discussion of ex-ante vs. ex-post rewards, see D. Lee et al. 2018. Approaches to REDD+ Nesting Lessons Learned from Country Experiences. The World Bank. https:/ /
openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/29720closely tied to GHG performance metrics. Similarly, 
an ER allocation approach in which actors or projects 
and programs at the smaller scales receive only a 
portion of the higher-scale reward will be weaker 
than an approach in which projects and programs can 
generate ERs, and thus receive carbon finance directly, 
without being limited by the higher-scale jurisdictional 
performance.  
Benefit sharing also applies to REDD+ projects 
in which project benefits or ERs are required to 
be shared with local actors. Carbon standards 
require projects to share benefits with local actors. 
Governments may supplement this guidance by 
defining benefit-sharing criteria for REDD+ projects. 
6.2 Application to Nesting Approaches
When a government sees forest carbon projects 
as critical to achieving their ERs, projects should 
be rewarded commensurate with their GHG 
contribution ; that is, in proportion to how much 
they have reduced emissions from deforestation. 
Depending on their experience with PES services and 
existing institutions, this can usually be achieved 
more easily under either a centralized or decentralized 
nesting system. Where governments have programs 
and institutions in place that can assign benefits, 
centralized systems may offer an efficient and 
effective solution. Where institutions are absent or 
weak, authorizing projects in decentralized systems 
provides an alternative to government programs. The 
direct allocation of benefits based on ERs may not be 
economically and institutionally feasible for smaller 
projects. In situations where the measurement of GHG 
performance is too cumbersome under centralized 
systems, proxies such as trees planted or hectares 
conserved can be used to assess performance.
The allocation of incentives for projects under 
any nested system does not  preclude having 
other benefit-sharing arrangements with various 
stakeholders, including Indigenous peoples and local 
communities, municipalities, or other local actors . 
Project-based benefit sharing describes only one 
element of a REDD+ benefit-sharing framework.
Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with Benefit 
Sharing
In the centralized approach, benefit sharing is 
managed and/or regulated by the government. 
Therefore, the efficacy of the distribution of benefits 
falls on the government and its ability to maintain 

--- PÁGINA 63 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers54
the benefit-sharing arrangements. The government 
monetizes ERs and uses the resulting proceeds to 
finance its REDD+ program, thus initially exercising 
full control over REDD+ finance. This usually 
includes allocating benefits to the communities, 
private actors, etc. who are implementing REDD+ 
activities on the ground, and covering government 
expenses such as operational costs. Under the fully 
centralized approach, government-led benefit-sharing 
arrangements may foresee the allocation of incentives 
based on project-level monitoring of indicators 
related to performance. Nongovernmental means 
(for example, NGOs, or the private sector) may also 
be used to channel benefits to local actors. However, 
they may use ex post payments to create domestic 
incentives linked to environmental performance 
through payments for ecosystem services, or other 
metrics. 
Centralized Nested Approach
The centralized nested approach also relies on the 
government to manage benefit sharing. In this model, 
the government rewards projects with monetary, 
nonmonetary, or carbon benefits based on their GHG 
performance.  Private entities can develop projects, but 
they are unable to autonomously monetize ERs unless 
the government allows them to do so. This model is 
dependent on the government’s ability to effectively 
implement benefit-sharing arrangements, whether it 
is managing and distributing financing, or ERs. 
Governments that choose a centralized nested 
system should define a method for allocating the 
distribution of ERs as part of the benefit-sharing 
framework. They  could focus on particular regions, 
encourage particular stakeholders to participate, or 
emphasize the protection of important ecosystems 
(for water, biodiversity, or other reasons). In doing so, 
they should avoid the creation of perverse incentives; 
for example, rewarding areas where emissions have 
happened in the past, and undermining those areas 
where the forest has been conserved or sustainably 
managed. As previously noted, it is important to 
involve relevant stakeholders in the decision-making 
process, and to promote equity and fairness in the 
allocation approach. 
The allocation system will determine the level of 
incentive for achieving GHG performance . The 
allocation of benefits will follow an agreed-upon “ER 
allocation method, ” as discussed in Section 4.4. This 
method may include a full reward for private efforts, 
or it may require projects to support government programs in return for a share of the ERs. Systems 
where projects depend on the government to generate 
ERs carry a high burden of risk for projects, and are 
thus likely to be of limited appeal for private investors 
or project developers. 
If the centralized nested approach is distributing 
financing, one important decision is how the 
government will channel such benefits to projects.  
This could be done via government-controlled funds, 
dedicated funds, or direct payments from supporters 
of national REDD+ programs to nested projects. The 
use of dedicated funds could help to remove the risk 
of default in payments. Similarly, the use of tested 
institutions could avoid delays in payments that might 
affect the financial viability of REDD+ projects.
Decentralized Nested Approach
The decentralized nested approach does not require 
the inclusion of projects as part of a government-
run benefit-sharing arrangement, since projects can 
directly monetize ERs.  Under this model, government 
agencies—for example, park authorities, communities, 
NGOs, and private-sector entities—can all develop 
and participate in carbon projects, either alone or in 
cooperation with each other. The decisions regarding 
benefit sharing in the context of these projects is done 
in accordance with carbon standards, and project 
agreements. Governments may require reports on 
project performance, and may consolidate their 
measurement, reporting, and verification (MRV) and 
accounting systems, but REDD+ projects are not 
dependent on the government to pass on the benefits 
to them. Projects can independently take decisions 
on when, how, and for what price to market ERs. 
The government would not be able to sell the ERs 
generated by projects, and would have to deduct 
the project ERs from the national accounting when 
seeking carbon or results-based finance. 
Under a decentralized benefit-sharing system, 
incentives for projects are delinked from the 
performance of government programs . Governments 
are uniquely placed to generate ERs over the long term 
through policy and governance reforms, while projects 
are well placed to support specific conservation 
efforts; for example, to provide support for measures 
targeting deforestation hotspots. Some governments 
may require projects to contribute a share of their ERs, 
or their proceeds, to government-led programs or local 
communities as part of the project’s benefit-sharing 
strategy, but projects retain the right to participate 
directly in private carbon markets. This model creates 

--- PÁGINA 64 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers55
a strong link between project GHG performance and 
rewards, and is more attractive to private carbon 
investors. 
Project Crediting (only), No Jurisdictional ER Program
Under this model, the government does not generate 
or directly receive rewards for ERs; consequently, 
there is no need for a benefit-sharing framework 
at the national level . Projects generate credits 
and can monetize them; they also put into place benefit-sharing arrangements in accordance with 
the requirements of national regulation or carbon 
standards. The government may seek to align the 
MRV systems of projects with national reporting, 
and it can provide guidance to projects on how to 
share carbon benefits; however, the benefits flow only 
from the project to local actors—for example, from 
a project operator or developer to local communities 
or landowners. This approach provides incentives for 
projects; where government action is required, it must 
occur in the absence of carbon finance. 
T able 14 Implications of Benefit Sharing for Each of the Four Models
Government control over how 
benefits are sharedCarbon incentives for local 
nonstate actors (communities, 
individuals, local public agencies)Relevant nesting 
model 
Very strong, since the government is the 
body monetizing and managing the funds 
received from ERsIncentives are not based on the actual ERs 
generated (they can be based on proxies to 
performance) and are received through benefit-
sharing arrangements.Jurisdictional ER program 
(only), with benefit sharing
Strong, since government manages the 
allocation of ERsIncentives are  based on ERs generated by 
projects. Rewards (payments and ERs) hinge on 
overall performance of the national program.Centralized  Nested
Moderate, as projects can directly 
monetize ERs and share them with local 
actorsIncentives are based on ERs generated and 
monetized directly by projects. Projects have 
their own benefit-sharing arrangements. They 
might have to comply with national guidance 
on benefit sharing in order to protect local 
communities and Indigenous peoples. Decentralized  Nested
Moderate, since government does not 
directly receive benefits from ERs (but is 
enabling its political constituents to do so)ERs are generated and monetized directly by 
projects, and projects have their own benefit-
sharing arrangements. They might have to 
comply with national guidance on benefit 
sharing in order to protect local communities 
and Indigenous peoples. Project- Crediting (only), 
no jurisdictional ER 
program

--- PÁGINA 65 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers56
7.1 General Considerations
The Cancun (COP-16) Conference adopted safeguard 
guidelines for REDD+ . T o address the concerns and 
risks that REDD+ implementation could generate, 
and to further promote the multiple benefits of 
REDD+, in 2010 UNFCCC’s parties agreed to seven 
social and environmental safeguards for REDD+. 
These safeguards address the risks associated with 
implementing REDD+, and aim to enhance its positive 
impacts by promoting and supporting the following 
safeguards:59 
i. Actions complement, or are consistent with, 
the objectives of national forest programs 
and relevant international conventions and 
agreements;
ii. There are transparent and effective national 
forest governance structures, taking into 
account national legislation and sovereignty; 
iii. Respect for the knowledge and rights of 
indigenous peoples and members of local 
communities is demonstrated by taking into 
account relevant international obligations, 
national circumstances and laws, and noting 
that the United Nations General Assembly has 
adopted the United Nations Declaration on the 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples; 
iv. The full and effective participation of relevant 
stakeholders, in particular indigenous peoples 
and local communities, is included in the actions 
referred to in paragraphs 70 and 72 of this [COP 
16] decision; 
v. Actions are consistent with the conservation of 
natural forests and biological diversity, ensuring 
that the actions referred to in paragraph 70 of 
this decision are not used for the conversion 
of natural forests, but are instead used to 
incentivize the FCCC/CP/2010/7/Add.1 27 
protection and conservation of natural forests 
and their ecosystem services, and to enhance 
other social and environmental benefits;
vi. Actions to address the risks of reversals are 
taken; 
vii. Actions to reduce the displacement of emissions 
are included. ”
59 Decision 1, UNFCCC COP 16, Appendix 1, Paragraph 2 at  https:/ /unfccc.int/resource/docs/2010/cop16/eng/07a01.pdf   
60  Decision 2/CP.17 Paragraph 63 and 64.
61 61 Decision 12/CP.19 at   https:/ /unfccc.int/resource/docs/2013/cop19/eng/10a01.pdf#page=33
62  Safeguards Country Resources Hub - UN-REDD Programme Collaborative Online Workspace  
63  Decision 2/CP 17 states that SIS should be implemented “taking into account national circumstances and respective capabilities, ... recognising national sovereignty and legislation, and 
relevant international obligations and agreements   ... ” .... ” .
64  https:/ /www.forestcarbonpartnership.org/requirements-and-templates#temp-read5At COP-17, held in Durban in 2011, the parties to 
UNFCCC agreed that the relevant safeguard provisions 
adopted at COP-16 would be applicable regardless 
of the source or type of financing.60 The Warsaw 
Framework for REDD+ complements the Cancun 
safeguards with requirements that countries need 
to provide a summary of information on safeguard 
implementation via their national communications, or 
communication channels agreed to by the Conference 
of the Parties, or, on a voluntary basis, via the web 
platform on the UNFCCC website.61
Safeguards are implemented in keeping with national 
laws and policies. Over the last few years, many 
countries have made progress in the implementation 
of safeguards and safeguard information systems 
(SIS).62 UNFCCC does not offer any methodological 
guidance on how to implement the Cancun safeguards 
and put into place an SIS. Countries are free to 
choose how they will interpret the safeguards in the 
context of their own legal systems, as well as how 
they will implement them, and operationalize the SIS.63  
However, countries should consider carefully from 
which entities, if any, they would seek ER payments, 
and ensure that they develop safeguard systems that 
would be satisfactory to the entities. For example, if 
a country intends to become involved in REDD+ under 
either the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) or 
the UN-REDD program, it should follow the safeguards 
guidance contained in the Readiness Preparation 
Proposal (R-PP).64
Although countries have some flexibility in how they 
choose to implement international requirements on 
safeguards, development of a safeguards framework 
for an ER project or program would typically involve 
the following steps:
1. Assessment of key social and environmental risks 
and potential impacts  (both positive and negative) 
of REDD+ strategy options; likely implementation 
arrangements; and stakeholders. Such assessment 
during consultations with stakeholders and 
preparation of the REDD+ strategy would be 
extremely valuable during the preparation of the 
REDD+ strategy itself, and the climate finance 
plans. The completed assessment should be 
publicly disclosed.7 . SAFEGUARDS 

--- PÁGINA 66 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers57
2. Based on the risks and impacts identified in the 
assessment, key stakeholders develop a program/
project-specific framework. The Environmental 
and Social Management Framework (ESMF), or 
a similar safeguards risk management plan can 
be used to set forth a relevant policy and legal 
framework for the management of safeguards 
issues; the risk avoidance, minimization, and 
mitigation measures that will be implemented; 
measures to enhance positive social and 
environmental impacts; definition of institutional 
roles and responsibilities; monitoring 
arrangements; budget required and source(s) 
of funding; a feedback and grievance redress 
mechanism  (FGRM); and the plan for ongoing 
stakeholder consultations. 
3. Monitor safeguards implementation, including 
taking into account feedback from the FGRM. 
National environmental and social safeguards are 
applicable to all REDD+ activities.  Consequently, in 
a nesting context, where implementation is occurring 
at multiple scales, this means that safeguard policies 
should apply to national programs as well as to nested 
REDD+ projects. How a government chooses to ensure 
that safeguards are applied and enforced may differ 
depending on the type of nested system chosen. But 
as part of the national legal framework, national 
REDD+ safeguards must be fulfilled by any REDD+ 
project or activity. 
Most governments have defined criteria and 
requirements that translate the UNFCCC Cancun 
safeguards65 to fit their national programs. If 
a country wishes to align safeguard application 
at multiple levels of REDD+ implementation, this 
may require interpreting and adjusting safeguard 
requirements according to the national regulatory 
framework so that they can apply to site-
scale or project-level activities (see Box 8). The 
operationalizing of safeguards is not easy, though. The 
national institutions that are in charge of the SIS face 
the challenge of collecting different types of safeguard 
information from the various institutions and 
actors involved. Therefore the SIS should be able to 
consolidate information from national and subnational 
entities, as well as projects. 
65  Decision 1.CP16, Appendix I. Check also: https:/ /www.unredd.net/knowledge/redd-plus-technical-issues/safeguards.html
66  REDD SES, IUCN. 2015. Considerations for Countries on Using Information from Nested Projects for REDD+ Safeguards Information Systems .T o facilitate REDD+ safeguards compliance, countries 
should clarify who is involved—project developer, 
landowner, etc.—and how the nested projects 
will implement safeguards and report on their 
compliance . They also have to regulate the periodicity, 
the content of the information, safeguard indicators, 
and the authority to which the information needs 
to be provided, as specified in the ESMF or a similar 
national document. Safeguard compliance templates 
can streamline and facilitate this reporting. The 
information provided by nested projects helps the 
country demonstrate how its social and environmental 
safeguards are being addressed and respected through 
the REDD+ safeguards information they report on 
under SIS. When projects are integrated into national 
REDD+ national programs such as the FCPF Carbon 
Fund, satisfactory safeguards compliance in line with 
the World Bank’s policies and standards is required in 
order to receive payments. Other facilities and donors 
might also have specific safeguard standards that 
need to be fulfilled by beneficiary governments, and 
the projects integrated into the national programs.
The private sector may also impose safeguard 
requirements on carbon projects, or credits—
for example, some require climate, community, 
biodiversity (CCB) certification. In such cases, 
projects may already be compliant with national 
requirements. Countries could accept certification 
under such standards as proof of fulfillment of 
the national safeguards. Where projects are CCB-
certified, the information provided and audits 
undertaken under the standard can inform the 
SIS. Site-specific information allows for effective 
identification, management, and monitoring of social 
and environmental risks and benefits.66 Project-level 
REDD+ information will have to be integrated into the 
SIS, which provides publicly available information on 
how safeguards are being addressed across all types 
of REDD+ implementation activities. The national 
FGRM will also have to be able to record and address 
project-level complaints. 

--- PÁGINA 67 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers58
Few countries offer specifications concerning the 
fulfillment of safeguard requirements by projects 
in their REDD+ legislation, although many of them 
have adopted national frameworks such as ESMF 
and FGRM to accommodate the requirements of the 
multinational initiatives in which they participate.67 
Several examples are provided here to illustrate 
the range of requirements currently considered by 
countries, in addition to the requirements of the 
REDD+ initiatives they are part of:
·	 The  Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) 
simply specifies that in the preparation and 
implementation of the REDD+ investment, the 
project developer is required to comply with 
socioenvironmental safeguards in accordance 
with the regulations in force.68 
·	 Madagascar  intends to use differentiated 
indicators to gather safeguards information at 
the national, subnational, and local levels.69 Its 
recent Advanced Benefit Sharing Plan stipulates 
that safeguards instruments will be applicable to 
any REDD+ activity that receives carbon benefits.70 
A future decree will detail the specific safeguard 
requirements concerning any REDD+ activity 
implemented in Madagascar. 
·	 In Mozambique, the national REDD+ regulation 
merely mentions that REDD+ projects and 
programs need to respect environmental and 
social safeguards.71 However, the country has 
elaborated its ESMF in the context of their REDD+ 
Strategy.72
·	 Guatemala has analyzed the compliance of 
existing REDD+ initiatives registered under 
voluntary carbon standards with World Bank 
FCPF requirements and Cancun safeguard 
requirements.73 Yet there are no general guidelines 
on how REDD+ initiatives should fulfill national 
safeguards; however,  the country has already 
elaborated its ESMF. 
67  For a list of countries participating in the FCPF Carbon Fund that have already advanced ESMF see, http/ /:www.forestcarbonpartnership.org/safeguards. 
68  Art. 24, 9 mai 2018. – Arrêté ministériel n° 047/CAB/MIN/EDD/AAN/MML/05/2018  fixant la procédure
d’homologation des investissements REDD+ en République démocratique du Congo (J.O.RDC., 1er juillet
2018, n° 13, col. 58).
69  Yasin Mahadi Salah et al. “Jurisdictional Approaches to REDD+ in Africa: Emerging Lessons. ” Yasin Mahadi Salah, UN-REDD Program, March 2019.
70  Advanced Benefit Sharing Plan: The Atiala-Atsinanana Emission Reduction Program. January 2020.
71  Art. 18 of Decreto n.º 23/2018, Regulamento para Programas e Projectos Inerentes à Redução de Emissões por Desmatamento e Degradação Florestal Conservação e Aumento de Reservas 
de Carbono (REDD+).
72  http:/ /documents1.worldbank.org/curated/es/970171484819513642/pdf/SFG2885-EA-P160033-Box402875B-PUBLIC-disclosed-1-18-17.pdf
73  Guatemala National Program for the Reduction and Removal of Emissions, November 2019.
74  Reducing emissions from San Martin and Ucayali in the Peruvian Amazon, Peru, June 2019.
75  Resolution No. 1447, August 1, 2018. Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development, Colombia·	 In Peru, an analysis of the ESMFs of ongoing 
projects and the ER program framework will be 
carried out in order to identify gaps that need to 
be filled.74 
·	 Colombia submitted the first summary of 
information on safeguards to UNFCCC in 
2017. This submission sheds some light on 
the requirements applied to the activities 
that seek to be nested. Under Colombian 
nesting legislation, REDD+ projects must 
report information regarding compliance 
with environmental and social safeguards in 
the national ER registry, especially regarding 
project participants; conditions of ownership 
and land tenure in the area of intervention; 
consent of the owners, possessors, or occupants 
of the properties in which the initiative will 
be implemented; and compatibility with land 
management and planning instruments.75
·	 Mexico provides a good example of coordination 
between national and federal states in the 
development and implementation of safeguards. 
The country submitted its first summary of 
information on the implementation of the Cancun 
safeguards to UNFCCC in 2017. Safeguards are 
implemented and monitored jointly at the federal 
and state levels. Most of the Mexican states 
have developed legislation in relevant areas such 
as forest governance, financial and distribution 
benefit mechanisms, Indigenous peoples’ rights, 
and development stakeholders’ participation in 
decision-making. Mexican federal states are also 
in charge of preparing state safeguard plans that 
will be linked to the national SIS. Box 8 Examples of How Countries Define Safeguard Requirements for a Nested System

--- PÁGINA 68 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers59
7.2 Application to Nesting Approaches
Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with Benefit 
Sharing
Under this model, the country defines national 
safeguards but does not need to formulate specific 
safeguards for integrated private projects. The 
government is responsible for implementing and 
enforcing nationally defined safeguards, as well 
as ensuring that safeguards are followed by all 
subnational and local-scale actors that have access 
to REDD+ benefits. While this approach limits the 
adoption of safeguards to a set of national REDD+ 
implementation standards, their implementation can 
be more challenging, since the government is fully 
responsible for adherence to the safeguards across the 
entire country.
Project-Crediting (only), No Jurisdictional 
Program 
Under this model, the government needs to formulate 
its own safeguard requirements for private and 
community-led projects . The government can 
distinguish between different safeguard requirements 
depending on the type of project, the involvement 
of various stakeholders (for example, Indigenous 
communities), and the location of the project 
76  World Bank. Environmental and Social Framework. 2017. (for example, within a biodiversity hotspot). The 
government can define reporting requirements and 
specific templates for safeguard compliance, with 
practical indicators that can be easily measured and 
reported, and can require proof of compliance. Where 
private projects are certified under a private standard, 
the auditors of such projects should be required 
to check for compliance with national safeguards. 
However, such private certification would not remove 
the obligation of the government to also check for 
compliance with national safeguards and/or to enforce 
the national safeguard system.
The government may also recognize existing 
safeguard systems as fulfilling all national 
requirements . It could, for example, recognize 
certain approved safeguard-related certifications 
(for example, CCB), or multilateral operational rules 
(for example, World Bank safeguards76) as meeting 
the requirements of national safeguards systems. 
Subnational jurisdictions may also develop their 
own safeguards policy to complement the national 
framework, as is the case in Mexico. 
Centralized Nested and Decentralized Nested Models 
The centralized and decentralized nested models  must 
regulate and apply both jurisdictional and project 
safeguard requirements, as described in Section 7.1.


--- PÁGINA 69 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers60
8.1 General Considerations
Different models of REDD+ implementation carry 
different risks. Nesting  is generally considered 
a strategy for reducing risks. By integrating 
projects into larger accounting and implementation 
frameworks, they can be better aligned with public 
policies; and by harmonizing measurement, reporting, 
and verification (MRV) and baselines, the risk of 
emission reduction (ER) inflation and/or undetected 
leakage (displacement) is greatly reduced, provided 
that the national systems are conservative and well 
managed. However, the linking of projects and national 
programs creates its own set of risks. These risks 
include:
·	 ER performance: If the government and private 
projects and programs perform well, they will 
all receive the full reward for their actions, 
regardless of whether nesting happens via the 
benefit sharing, centralized, decentralized , or 
a mere project-crediting model. However, there 
are risks that can arise in nested systems, for 
example:
o Underperformance risk. This can occur if 
one party (whether the government or a 
project) has poor REDD+ performance, while 
the other performs well. The situation where 
one party “underperforms” is closely related 
to the challenges of managing leakage and 
permanence in nested systems, including 
decisions on who is responsible (and liable) for 
them.
o Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) 
compliance risk . Where the transfer of 
ER results is linked to a corresponding 
adjustment, this may affect a country’s ability 
to achieve its NDC. If the country is required to 
subtract the ER claims by projects or programs 
within its borders—for example, if projects and 
programs are allowed to sell their credits with 
a corresponding adjustment, the government 
will need to take this transfer into account in 
their efforts to meet their NDCs.
·	 Financial risks:  Another type of risk is that of 
payment default ; this risk is not unique to nesting, 
but there can be potentially compounded payment 
risks to parties in a nested/linked system. For 
example, if a buyer fails to honor its agreements 
with a government, this could impact projects 
linked to the government benefit-sharing system. And if projects generate fewer ERs than they 
previously predicted, it may reduce the funding 
that governments can access. 
·	 Legal/regulatory risk:  Private actors may claim 
damages from the government, for example, 
by initiating legal action if their rights to 
commercialize ERs are impinged on due to the 
implementation of nesting. Existing projects 
may lose (or reduce) their right to monetize GHG 
performance once regulated in a jurisdictional-
only or centralized nested system. Risks for 
projects also arise if the government does not 
follow through on decisions and agreements 
made within the nested system, particularly 
regarding the sharing of benefits, whether they are 
monetary, nonmonetary, or carbon benefits.
·	 Political risk:  Nesting can either reduce or 
compound the risk of social conflict and political 
support for the government REDD+ strategy. 
Where nested systems empower local actors, 
nesting can increase the real and perceived 
fairness of REDD+ implementation. Where local 
actors do not participate in national programs, 
this may compromise national ER systems. 
·	 Environmental integrity risk. Nesting can address 
the risk of ER inflation and double counting, 
mitigating the risk to environmental integrity. 
Centralized approaches  assign more powers to the 
government, and allow public actors to control the 
process of generating, and in some cases monetizing, 
ERs. However, these models may have higher 
legal risks for the government, particularly if the 
establishment of a centralized system impinges on the 
rights of constituents to benefit from forest carbon 
performance. There are also greater risks to projects 
in a centralized system, since the benefits are tied to 
national GHG performance.  
Decentralized systems , where actors operate more 
independently from each other, tend to have lower 
risks of conflict and default . However, if the drivers of 
deforestation in a country can only be tackled largely 
through changes to government policies, a system 
focused on project-scale activities may not achieve as 
many ERs overall, and the country’s achievement of its 
NDC may consequently suffer.
A government should carefully consider the risks of 
the model it has chosen, and define strategies for 
managing them . For example, in a centralized system, 
where national ER performance risk is particularly 8. RISK MANAGEMENT

--- PÁGINA 70 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers61
relevant for projects, governments can guarantee 
certain payments to affected communities, even in 
cases where it falls short in accessing international 
finance. Political risks can be managed by employing a 
participatory approach, and empowering communities in the context of REDD+ activities and projects. It 
is particularly important that attention be paid to 
the integration of existing projects into national ER 
programs.
Box 9 Integrating Early-Action Projects in a REDD+ Program
In order to integrate existing projects into a national ER program, a process may be needed to transition project 
and/or subnational activities from their “stand-alone” status to the nested system . In many cases, REDD+ 
projects have already been operating prior to the formulation of a jurisdictional program.  When a country sets 
up a nested system, those projects will be affected. A well-implemented national ER program may improve the 
situation of projects, since they are then embedded in a comprehensive suite of mitigation measures, which helps 
them to gain credibility and possibly access to additional funding. However, the financials of early-action projects 
can also suffer from nesting. For example, nesting can change a project’s baseline, thus changing its ability to 
access finance (see Section 4 on MRV). If a project loses income through nesting, it may petition the government 
or even claim legal damages, depending on national laws. In addition, local and Indigenous communities involved 
in early-action projects can suffer from discontinued funding if the integration of projects into the nesting 
system affects the assumptions about benefit distribution that these communities considered when initially 
accepting participation in the project. These “early action risks”  can result in protest or complaints by private 
developers and participating communities, which can make the implementation of REDD+ difficult. Integrating 
existing projects into such a system may be achieved over a fixed period through agreements among projects, 
and with the national government, on how to regulate such a transition.  
In the next section we explain in more depth how different models result in a different set of risks.  We also try to 
clarify where the risk lands (whether on the government, or on projects), and offer potential mitigation measures 
for each risk.


--- PÁGINA 71 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers62
8.2 Application to Nesting Approaches
Jurisdictional ER Program (only), with Benefit 
Sharing
Under this model, the government carries full 
responsibility for REDD+ performance, and is also 
solely responsible for generating and monetizing 
ERs.  As such, it carries the ER performance risk 
as well as the default risk if a partner fails to pay 
for ERs that have been achieved. Considering that 
currently most contractual partners are multilateral 
organizations such as the World Bank, or donor 
countries such as Norway and Germany, which have 
high credit ratings, such default risk is limited. Since 
the government does not recognize project crediting, 
the ER underperformance of projects and programs, 
or NDC compliance risk due to transactions by 
projects, does not pose concerns for the government. 
However, an additional risk relates to the capacity 
of national institutions to channel the payments 
received to local actors . This risk does not relate 
to the absence of finance, but to the efficiency of 
procedures by which national institutions transfer 
funds to such actors.In a jurisdictional-only approach, a country might 
carry the risk that national stakeholders may 
claim a legal right or take legal action if they are 
not authorized to engage in projects and/or be 
considered in the country’s REDD+ benefit-sharing 
arrangements.  This risk depends on the rights that 
local stakeholders are entitled to under the national 
legal system, based on land and forest resource 
ownership, or the right to manage and benefit from 
forest lands. There is also the risk that existing 
early-action projects may claim damages if they are 
not integrated into a government REDD+ system. 
Depending on the credit rating of a REDD+ country, 
local actors may worry that the government will not 
honor an agreement to pass on nonmarket results-
based finance (RBF), or carbon finance received for 
national GHG performance. Since such agreements 
are often executed between international donors and 
the host country bilaterally, it is essential that the 
country has a functioning and accessible feedback and 
grievance redress mechanism (FGRM). This is helpful 
in making RBF partners aware of potential problems, 
which may also lead to a default provision under the 
agreement between the government and the donor: for 
example, in the case of FCPF Carbon Fund ERPAs. 


--- PÁGINA 72 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers63
T able 15 Risks Inherent in the Jurisdictional-Only Approach
Type of risk National 
RiskProject* 
RiskSpecific Risks and Mitigation Measures
ER performance
√REDD+ performance depends on effective implementation of government 
policies and measures. Effective implementation rewards local activities 
through benefit sharing, but may take time if institutions are weak and 
policies nascent. Leakage is captured in national accounting, and the 
government program is responsible for the permanence of the ERs. There is 
no NDC compliance risk.
Financial risk
√Payment and default risk are fully assumed by the government, and can 
be mitigated by promoting various streams of finance to support a REDD+ 
strategy beyond carbon finance.
√Local actors who are implementing the activities may face a risk that the 
government  will fail to channel benefits to them under a benefit-sharing 
mechanism. Such risk can be mitigated by developing accountability 
mechanisms implemented by the institutions in charge of disbursing 
benefits and implementing the REDD+ strategy. An FGRM is also an 
essential risk-mitigating measure.
Legal and 
regulatory risks
√Early-action projects may face risks if the government decides to close off 
options for such projects to operate. T o manage this risk, the government 
may assume responsibility for and compensate project proponents, while 
also taking over the responsibilities toward communities. 
√Where private actors have the right to independently develop REDD+ 
projects and commercialize ERs, the government must take measures to 
compensate those actors for the loss of such rights based on laws or rules 
that apply when the government takes (that is, expropriates) such rights.
Political risk
√ √There is a risk of social unrest if the benefit sharing is considered unfair, or 
is not implemented; the legal, social, and political rights of actors should 
be included in the development and implementation of benefit-sharing 
arrangements to mitigate such risks.
Environmental 
integrity risk
√The risk of double counting is reduced, since only the national ER program 
is claiming ERs. Risk of environmental integrity could occur if the 
methods overestimate the ERs; this risk can be reduced by using accurate 
methodologies.
*In this instance, “project” refers to local actors engaged in activities with the expectation of participating in a 
benefit-sharing program.


--- PÁGINA 73 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers64
Centralized Nested Approach
Under the centralized nested approach, the 
government is still responsible for national REDD+ 
performance, but it relies in part on projects to 
contribute to it; at the same time, projects depend 
on overall national performance to receive their 
monetary, nonmonetary, or carbon benefits.  In other 
words, the lack of performance by a national program 
may impact the ability of projects to receive their 
own “rewards. ” This can have serious implications 
for the viability of projects, and can also impact the 
local communities and smallholders who are the 
ultimate beneficiaries. This exposure to host country 
performance risk may discourage projects from 
participating in a centralized nested approach, unless 
the government accepts liability for such risk on 
behalf of the projects. However, the government takes 
a risk if project performance is poor; it may need to impose liabilities on the projects for leakage and other 
reversals that occur due to their activities.
Private actors may claim participation in REDD+. 
As in the jurisdictional-only approach, it is essential 
that the government consider preexisting rights and 
legally relevant expectations when it develops its 
benefit-sharing system and defines the allocation 
of ERs to projects. The risk is particularly prominent 
in relation to the integration of early-action 
projects into the national program, especially in 
cases where such integration results in monetary 
losses by private projects . If projects are forced to 
default under investment treaties, the litigation 
can extend to international project partners. This 
risk can be addressed by participatory design of the 
ER program, and the inclusion of grace periods and 
“grandfathering” arrangements. 


--- PÁGINA 74 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers65
T able 16 Risks Inherent in the Centralized Nested Approach
Type of  
RiskNational  
RiskProject  
RiskSpecific Risks and Mitigation Measures
ER  
Performance
√The government depends in part on projects to generate ERs. This makes the 
government dependent on private performance. If projects fail to perform and 
the country fails to achieve the planned results, it may not be able to access the 
full amount of RBF or carbon finance, or it may not achieve its NDC. Mitigation 
measures include:
·	Conservatively assessing the contributions that projects will be able to make 
to national performance, and ensuring that ERs are also generated by public 
programs.
·	Withdrawing or suspending “nested” project authorizations and approvals.
·	Reducing the allocated quotas to nonperforming projects, and reassigning them 
to performing projects.
The creation of a buffer fund to compensate for performance failures (whether due 
to leakage or reversals) is another way to mitigate ER underperformance, but an 
agreed-upon system would be needed in order to decide on how contributions to the 
buffer are made, and how any liability for underperformance will be handled.
√If the government does not perform, projects may not receive their rewards—this 
has the effect of discouraging private investment into site-based activities. Projects 
may also face risks if the government changes the overall FREL or ER allocation 
method under which projects must nest. A government could mitigate this risk by:
·	Creating a buffer pool of ERs, or  a fund to compensate for performance failures 
in years of poor performance.
·	Authorizing projects to market ERs in case of a failure to generate ERs at the 
national scale—in other words, the option to fall back to the decentralized 
approach in cases where projects are (still) registered with a voluntary carbon 
market standard.
·	Providing a guarantee to projects to purchase a minimum volume of credits 
at a given price, independently from national performance, and the country 
accessing RBF or carbon finance.
·	Some combination of the above.
Financial  Risk
√ √Payment and default risks are assumed by the government; however, in the case of 
a default by the buyer, the government may authorize projects to directly market 
their ERs.
√Projects may face a risk that the government will not channel benefits to actors 
under the benefit-sharing mechanism. Such risk can be mitigated by:
·	Holding in trust a part or all of the international RBF and carbon finance 
available for disbursement against project or program performance. 
·	Agreeing with donors that funds will be transferred directly to nested projects, 
following preestablished procedures.
·	As above, a fallback option could be that projects may issue and monetize their 
ERs directly if there is a government failure. 

--- PÁGINA 75 ---

Nesting of REDD+ Initiatives: Manual for Policymakers66
Legal and  
Regulatory  
Risks
√Early-action projects may be at risk when a nested system is implemented. This can 
be mitigated by:
·	Engaging with projects to find an acceptable solution for both sides.
·	Negotiating a “transition” of such projects into the national program. 
“Grandparenting” agreements should be contractually confirmed between 
early-action projects and the government, and could include a time limitation 
for existing projects, and a cut-off date for full integration into the national 
program. Transition periods are also defined under existing private standards, 
such as VCS’s JNR.
√International or domestic private actors may claim damages from the government, 
especially if the government constrains their ability to monetize ERs, or if it 
monetizes ERs that belong to private actors. This can be mitigated by:
·	Continuous consultations with projects, including international partners.
·	Agreeing on a transition period, and measures that delink the ability of projects 
to access rewards for GHG performance, at least partly, from national REDD+ 
performance.
·	Adopting a clear and transparent nesting policy.
·	Avoiding claiming ERs where governments do not hold land and management 
rights. (This is addressed under FCPF, and private standards such as JNR).
Political  Risk
√ √Social unrest may occur if benefit sharing or the allocation of ERs, or the way they 
are  implemented, is considered unfair. This can be mitigated by:
·	Including existing and future project proponents and local communities in the 
design of benefit sharing and nesting agreements. 
·	Ensuring the monitoring, compliance, and impact of benefit-sharing 
arrangements.
·	Establishing an FGRM, or facilitating access to the courts.
Environmental  
Integrity  Risk
√The risk of double counting is reduced, since ERs generated by the sum of REDD+ 
projects cannot exceed those generated at the national level. Risk of environmental 
integrity could occur if the methods overestimate ERs (but this can be reduced if 
accurate methodologies are used); or if the method used to allocate ERs to REDD+ 
projects is not accurate.
Decentralized Nested Approach
Under the decentralized nested approach, projects 
are sheltered from host country performance 
risks because credits can be marketed even if the 
country (or jurisdiction) as a whole underperforms . 
This is why this approach is attractive to the private 
sector. However, such an approach may come 
with reputational risks for projects if the country 
consistently fails to reduce emissions, and leakage 
risks are high. The decentralized approach does reduce 
litigation risks for the government, since landowners 
and communities—those who may claim the rights to 
forest carbon—are not constrained in their ability to 
generate, issue, and monetize ERs .  
This model requires effort and commitment in order 
to be successfully managed.  Potentially, it can 
engage the greatest number of streams of finance; for 
example, the potential of multiple streams of private 
financing. Government and project proponents can 
separately manage the market and payment risks, reducing the country’s overall default risk through 
diversification. This makes this model resilient to 
the default of one buyer, but also increases the 
complexities, and requires greater institutional 
capacities.
Projects may face risks due to an uncertain 
regulatory environment, particularly where 
governments are prone to frequent review, updating, 
and changing of the rules for REDD+ projects.  Drastic 
changes in the rules can create instability that can 
seriously damage or affect a project’s viability. Legal 
certainty also helps to maintain a stable nesting 
approach. While governments have legitimate grounds 
for reviewing and updating the key rules that permit 
the nesting REDD+ system to evolve and improve 
based on new information (for example, to update 
MRV requirements), drastic rule changes that lead 
to the adoption of different nesting approaches can 
cause serious damage to the viability of projects and 
affect their legitimate expectations.