DOCUMENTO: State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2025 (1)
PARTE 2 de 6
Páginas 16 a 30
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 16 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202516
outcomes include enhanced energy and food security, increased 
efficiency of national tax systems, higher labor productivity and thus 
economic growth through replacing inefficient taxes, and government 
revenue that can be directed towards countries’ individual objectives.13 
Carbon pricing coverage has continued to expand globally, 
and empirical evidence of its effectiveness continues to grow, 
demonstrating the importance of its role in countries’ climate policy 
mixes. While carbon pricing may not be a silver bullet, it is an important 
tool available to jurisdictions to strengthen their ability to address 
broader economic and environmental challenges and facilitate the 
global transition to net zero emissions.
New approaches are needed to mobilize finance, particularly for emerging 
markets and developing economies. The Independent High-Level Expert 
Group on Climate Finance estimates that by 2030 there will need to be a global 
investment of USD 6.3 to 6.7 trillion per year to support decarbonization, build 
resilience to rising impacts of climate change (including extreme weather), and 
protect nature and biodiversity.14 Around USD 2.4 trillion of this must go toward 
emerging markets and developing economies other than China. Meeting this 
increased investment requires additional financial resources from governments 
(USD 800–900 billion), businesses (USD 1–1.18 trillion), and other international 
or multilateral sources (USD 490–610 billion). For governments, mobilizing 
additional revenue through effective taxation and strategic public finance 
management will be key to creating the fiscal space necessary to meet broader 
development priorities.While carbon pricing helps generate public revenue, carbon credit 
markets can mobilize private capital and channel public finance. Carbon 
credit markets have an important role in raising private capital. They have 
the potential to act as a vehicle to channel private capital to development 
projects that reduce or remove emissions from the atmosphere. This includes, 
for example, planting new forests and promoting technology adoption in 
low-income countries, such as the use of clean cookstoves. For example, 
an estimated USD 14 billion was raised in Q1–Q3 of 2024 toward developing 
new carbon credit projects globally, with the highest share dedicated to 
nature-based removal projects.15 The recent agreement on international 
carbon markets at the 2024 Conference of the Parties of the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP29) in Baku, Azerbaijan, 
could help advance market participation and has the potential to stimulate 
greater investment flows to low-income countries. This agreement provides 
clarity on the rules for cross-border transfers of carbon credits under Article 
6 of the Paris Agreement. With the agreement in place, focus will transition 
to operationalization, which will require building countries’ capacities—from 
setting up institutional and regulatory frameworks to deploying market 
infrastructure, such as registries. The confirmation of UN-administered carbon 
markets has opened an alternative avenue for market participation, which is 
significant given the increased scrutiny over the integrity of voluntary carbon 
markets in recent years. 

--- PÁGINA 17 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202517
This report covers 
the state and 
trends of direct 
carbon pricing 
instruments and 
carbon  markets1.2 Scope of the report 
As with past years', this report covers the state and 
trends of direct carbon pricing instruments and carbon 
markets. The report is intended to serve as a snapshot of 
ETSs, carbon taxes, and carbon pricing mechanisms (see 
Box 2). It includes developments up until April 1, 2025, 
with a focus on developments in the previous 12 months. It 
provides information on observable metrics, such as prices, 
coverage, and revenues, and how these have changed 
over time. The report is not intended to provide a critique 
or normative assessment of policy choices. Chapter 2 
explores key trends in carbon taxes and ETSs, while chapter 
3 examines carbon crediting mechanisms, including 
voluntary and international carbon markets. The annexes 
provide additional detail, including on the definitions and 
methodology used in this report. Additional information, 
including the data underpinning this report, is available on 
the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing Dashboard. 

--- PÁGINA 18 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202518
BOX 2 
What is carbon pricing? 
Carbon pricing seeks to align the costs of consuming carbon-intensive 
fuels or using carbon-intensive processes with the social costs of those 
activities. The State and Trends of Carbon Pricing report focuses on direct 
carbon pricing instruments, which are those policies that aim to reduce 
GHG emissions by providing a price signal explicitly linked to emissions. 
The report focuses on three main instruments (which are not mutually 
exclusive): 
• Emissions trading systems, where a government places a limit, or cap, 
on the amount or intensity of GHG emissions generated by covered 
entities. Entities must surrender emission units (or “allowances”) to 
cover their emissions within a compliance period. Companies can 
trade allowances with other covered entities, and the price is mainly 
determined by the market. 
• Carbon taxes, where a government levies a fee on covered entities 
for their GHG emissions. Under a carbon tax, the government sets 
the price of emissions (the tax rate), by taxing either the amount of 
emissions produced or the carbon content of fuels.
• Carbon crediting mechanisms, where tradable credits are generated 
through voluntary activities that reduce emissions through either 
avoidance or reduction (preventing GHG emissions from entering 
the atmosphere—like capturing methane from landfills before it is 
released), or removal (taking GHGs from the atmosphere, for example 
through sequestering carbon through afforestation). This report coversdomestic and international as well as compliance and voluntary carbon 
credit market activities.
In contrast to direct carbon pricing, indirect carbon pricing instruments 
(such as fuel excise taxes and fossil fuel subsidies) change the price of 
products associated with carbon emissions, but are not explicitly linked 
to GHG emissions. While this report does not focus on indirect carbon 
pricing, Box 6 in chapter 2 provides insights on examples of indirect 
carbon pricing in Latin America. “Carbon pricing” in this report refers to 
direct carbon pricing unless otherwise stated.
In this report, “internal carbon pricing” refers to an estimate of GHG 
emission costs used internally by companies as a strategic planning tool 
to identify climate-related revenue opportunities and risks, drive energy 
efficiency, and inform capital investment decisions.
Further information on definitions can be found in Annex C.

--- PÁGINA 19 ---

CHAPTER 2
Carbon taxes 
and emission 
trading 
systems


--- PÁGINA 20 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202520
The proportion 
of global GHG 
emissions covered 
by a direct carbon 
price increased 
from 24% to 28%CHAPTER 2
Carbon taxes and emission trading systems
Carbon pricing now covers around 28% of global GHG emissions, with 43 carbon taxes and 37 ETSs in place. Jurisdictions 
comprising almost two-thirds of global GDP have a direct carbon price in place and the largest middle-income economies, 
including Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, and Türkiye have implemented or are moving toward implementing carbon pricing. 
Carbon prices have remained relatively flat across most jurisdictions. Despite a slight reduction in carbon pricing revenues, 
globally ETSs and carbon taxes continued to generate over USD 100 billion.
2.1 Progress in key economies and planned scope 
expansions have increased global coverage and have 
primed the pipeline for future increases
Carbon pricing now covers around 28% of global GHG 
emissions, with increased coverage largely due to 
China’s national ETS expanding beyond the power sector. 
The last 12 months saw several announced extensions to 
existing carbon pricing instruments, increasing covered 
emissions to almost 15 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent emissions (tCO2e) out of the global total of just 
over 52 billion tCO2e. As a result, the proportion of global 
GHG emissions covered by a direct carbon price increased 
from 24% to 28% (Figure 1). The most significant addition 
was the expansion of China’s national ETS to cover cement, 
steel, and aluminum, increasing gross coverage by around 
3 billion tCO2e. Liabilities apply retrospectively to these 
new sectors from January 1, 2024, with compliance 
requirements ramping up over two years. Colombia also 
advanced its carbon pricing framework through expanding 
its national carbon tax beyond liquid and gaseous fossil fuels to also include coal combustion, with facilities included 
at a progressively increasing rate. These developments 
demonstrate the flexibility of carbon pricing to ratchet up 
over time, both through increasing carbon price levels and 
through expanding coverage to new sectors. This flexibility 
is important as governments continue to balance a range of 
policy objectives.

--- PÁGINA 21 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202521
Overall, the number of implemented carbon pricing 
instruments increased slightly with the launch of new 
and revival of suspended policies, which offset the 
rollback of carbon taxes in Canada. There are now 80 
direct carbon pricing instruments in operation around 
the world, 37 ETSs and 43 carbon taxes (Figure 2). This 
represents a net increase of five since April 1, 2024, after 
accounting for both new and removed policies. Two ETSs 
have been added to the tally—one newly implemented 
ETS and one ETS that has been reinstated. The former 
was implemented by the US state of Colorado, expanding 
a framework adopted in 2021 to allow for credit creation 
and trading between covered businesses.16 The latter was 
reinstated by the US state of Oregon in January 2025.17 
Three new carbon taxes took effect over the 12 months 
up to April 1, 2025—a new carbon tax on fuels in Israel and 
two subnational carbon taxes in Mexico, in Mexico City and 
Morelos.18 The year 2024 also saw the commencement of 
the first compliance period for the carbon fee in Taiwan, 
China, with liabilities due by May 2026.19 In addition, Portugal 
reinstated its carbon tax in September 2024. In Canada, 
however, new regulations have ended the application of 
the federal fuel charge, precipitating the elimination of 
the subnational carbon tax in British Columbia and the 
Saskatchewan output-based pricing system (OBPS).20 These 
movements highlight the importance and impact of the 
political economy on carbon pricing (Box 3).FIGURE 1
Share of global greenhouse gas emissions covered by an ETS or carbon tax, 2005–2025


--- PÁGINA 22 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202522
FIGURE 2
Global map of ETS and carbon taxes implemented, under development, or under consideration


--- PÁGINA 23 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202523
BOX 3 
The political economy of carbon pricing 
Carbon pricing represents one of many policy tools available to 
governments as they seek to deliver on a number of competing policy 
objectives, such as emissions reductions, economic development, 
job creation, poverty alleviation, and fiscal stability. The adoption 
and durability of carbon pricing policies is influenced by a range of 
factors, including their perceived effectiveness, fairness, impacts, 
and distributional effects. This means that in addition to policy design 
aspects, the political economy (including public sentiment) influences the 
potential for carbon pricing policies to deliver environmental, economic, 
and fiscal outcomes.
Three recent World Bank reports21 describe how climate policies, including 
carbon pricing, affect politics, the economy, and society, and vice 
versa. Balancing Act summarizes the challenges and opportunities with 
advancing carbon pricing, highlighting that policy makers should consider 
local concerns, industry interests, institutional capacity, and the political 
landscape as part of policy design and implementation. Within Reach 
emphasizes that while climate policies like carbon pricing can create jobs, 
these outcomes depend on intentional design choices and the presence 
of a supportive policy environment. For example, new job creation can 
be supported through revenue recycling into infrastructure investments 
and reductions in labor taxes. Reality Check highlights that carbon 
pricing can be compatible with positive economic and social outcomes, 
as demonstrated by British Columbia’s carbon tax, which increased 
aggregate employment and helped narrow the gap between low- and 
high-income households through revenue recycling without harming economic growth. Despite these documented positive impacts, the 
government of British Colombia cancelled the carbon tax on March 31, 
2025, citing that “it has become too politically divisive and a distraction 
from the important issues we are tackling.”22 Such examples highlight 
that evidence-based assessments of the effectiveness, fairness, and 
impacts of carbon pricing alone are insufficient to overcome the political 
economy aspects that affect the success and longevity of carbon pricing 
policies.

--- PÁGINA 24 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202524
Countries with 
carbon pricing in 
force represent 
almost two-thirds 
of global GDPMost major economies, including large middle-income 
economies, have implemented or are advancing the 
adoption of carbon pricing, with countries in Asia playing 
an increasingly significant role. Collectively, countries 
with carbon pricing in force represent almost two-thirds 
of global GDP. Canada, China, the EU, Japan, Mexico, and 
the United Kingdom have all implemented carbon pricing 
instruments, while several middle-income countries have 
made substantial progress in the past year (see Table 1).
Most of this recent progress has been through the 
consideration or adoption of ETSs rather than carbon taxes. 
Brazil approved a law in December 2024 that sets out an 
ambitious framework for implementing an ETS with links to 
domestic carbon credits within the next five years. There 
was also notable progress in Türkiye, where a proposed 
climate law was submitted to Parliament. The draft law sets 
out the legal framework for Türkiye’s response to climate 
change, including its ETS, with the potential for a pilot phase 
to commence in 2026.23 The Indian government established 
regulations in mid-2024 for its planned ETS, which will 
target emissions intensity reductions in India’s industrial 
sector.24 Both India and Türkiye are progressing rate-based 
ETSs, where total emissions are not capped but individual 
entities are allocated a performance benchmark that serves 
as a limit on their net emissions. Rate-based ETSs offer 
additional flexibility in managing future growth uncertainty 
as well as international competitiveness concerns. In East 
Asia, new policies are advancing for both ETSs and carbon 
taxes: Thailand’s cabinet approved a carbon tax; Malaysia 
announced its intention to fast-track the introduction of 
a carbon tax for the energy and iron and steel industries by 2026; and the Philippines’ House of Representatives 
proposed a bill that would establish an ETS.25 
The drivers for the increasing interest in carbon pricing 
are diverse. While decarbonizing economies and achieving 
international commitments remains paramount, broader 
motivating factors are also driving action. As highlighted in 
chapter 1, jurisdictions are employing carbon pricing as a 
fiscal tool and are using it as a policy lever to help manage 
broader economic issues, including those presented through 
the introduction of border carbon adjustments (Box 4). 

--- PÁGINA 25 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202525
Brazil formally 
approved a law 
to establish 
the Brazilian 
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Trading 
SystemTABLE 1
Carbon pricing developments in key emerging economies
Brazil  In December 2024, Brazil formally approved a law to establish the Brazilian Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Trading System. The ETS is set to cover large facilities in all sectors except 
for agriculture and is expected to be operational in five years. The ETS also establishes 
a process to facilitate the use of carbon credits to meet ETS liabilities and a process for 
determining whether credits can be transferred internationally under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement. 
China In March 2025, China confirmed the expansion of the national ETS to include the steel, 
cement, and aluminum sectors. This change was implemented retrospectively with 
compliance requirements commencing from January 1, 2024. This expansion brings 1,500 
additional entities under the national ETS regulation, covering an additional 3 billion tCO₂e. 
As a result, the total coverage of the national ETS has increased to around 8 billion tCO₂e, 
which represents over half of China’s total GHG emissions.
India In July 2024 the Indian government adopted detailed regulations for its planned Carbon 
Credit Trading Scheme, a rate-based ETS covering an initial nine energy-intensive 
industrial sectors. The program will issue carbon credit certificates to covered facilities 
that outperform an emissions intensity benchmark. A domestic voluntary carbon crediting 
program is also being developed, which would issue carbon credits for activities and 
emissions sources not covered by the ETS.26 On March 28, 2025, India’s Ministry of Power 
announced the approval of eight crediting methodologies, including for renewable energy, 
green hydrogen production, industrial energy efficiency, and mangrove afforestation and 
reforestation.27 The gradual transition from the current market-based energy efficiency 
program Perform, Achieve, and Trade scheme to these new programs is set to begin in 2025. 
Indonesia The scope of Indonesia’s rate-based ETS was expanded in 2024 to include additional grid-
connected coal-fired power generation facilities with generation above 25 megawatts. 
This expansion means covered power plants increased from 99 to 146. A second expansion 
is planned for 2025 to also cover natural gas generators and power plants that are not 
connected to the grid.
Türkiye Türkiye submitted its Climate Law Proposal to Parliament in February 2025. The draft law 
provides the legal framework to establish Türkiye’s ETS and governance arrangements 
through a Carbon Market Board. The details of the ETS will be outlined in regulations. The 
initial pilot phase of the ETS is expected to commence in 2026.

--- PÁGINA 26 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202526
BOX 4 
Border carbon adjustment mechanisms 
Border carbon adjustment mechanisms (BCAs) are policy instruments 
that impose a carbon price at the border on the emissions embodied 
in certain carbon-intensive goods imported from other jurisdictions. 
The main objective of a BCA is to equalize the carbon price levied on 
imported goods with the carbon price charged on domestically produced 
goods (through a carbon tax or an ETS) to level the playing field and 
prevent carbon leakage. BCAs are relatively novel, but a conceptually 
similar approach has been implemented in California for over a decade, 
which applies its carbon price to imported electricity. The EU’s Fit for 55 
legislative package includes the first transnational example of a BCA, the 
EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM).
While the EU CBAM is the first of its kind, other economies are 
considering BCAs. The UK government announced the introduction of 
its CBAM starting in 2027. In October 2024, it published a response to its 
CBAM policy design consultation, outlining the scope, mechanics, and 
impacts of the UK CBAM.28 Australia, Canada, Japan, and Türkiye have 
also investigated the possibility of implementing BCAs.29 Taiwan, China, 
is developing a CBAM proposal expected to be announced in the middle 
of 2025.30 Thailand’s draft climate change bill includes provisions on 
establishing a CBAM similar to the EU CBAM.31 Chile’s 2024 draft sectoral 
plan included a plan for the Ministry of Economy, Development, and 
Tourism to study the implementation by 2029 of a BCA for emissions-
intensive industries exposed to foreign trade.32 As noted in the report 
of the Joint Task Force on Climate Action, Carbon Pricing and Policy 
Spillovers, while BCAs can help manage leakage, they can also create 
nontrivial compliance and reporting costs, which could potentiallydisproportionately adversely affect lower-income countries.33 This 
risk can be minimized by streamlining and harmonizing reporting 
requirements to minimize costs and avoid imposing unintentional barriers 
to trade.34 
More countries are exploring policy responses to reduce their exposure 
to emerging BCAs, including the adoption of carbon pricing. Introducing 
a domestic carbon price can reduce exposure in two ways: first, by 
incentivizing improvements in the production efficiency of exported 
goods; and second, by reducing import charges by demonstrating that a 
carbon price has already been applied.i Growing evidence suggests that 
the introduction of BCAs is motivating countries to implement carbon 
pricing and to prioritize carbon pricing in sectors covered by planned 
BCAs. For example, Türkiye’s Medium-Term Program (2023–2025) ties the 
planned national ETS to the EU CBAM. Israel’s decision to adopt a carbon 
tax cites the need to improve industrial efficiency and references the 
need to support facilities exposed to international trade.35 Discussions 
in Malaysia have cited the potential for a carbon tax on industry as a way 
of both retaining revenues and creating a level playing field for domestic 
producers in alignment with the EU CBAM.36 Viet nam has moved to 
expedite implementation of its ETS for CBAM sectors, indicating that 
these sectors will be the first to receive government quotas in 2025 
and 202637 and China’s national ETS coverage expansion has prioritized 
sectors covered by the EU CBAM.38i 
i For example, both the EU and the UK CBAM frameworks include provisions that allow for reduced charges 
where the associated emissions have already been subject to a carbon price in their country of origin.

--- PÁGINA 27 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202527
Globally, the power sector continues to have the highest 
levels of carbon pricing coverage with industry a close 
second due to China’s recent scope expansion. Over 
half of global power sector emissions (which represent 
almost 30% of global GHG emissions) were covered by a 
carbon price in 2025. This high level of coverage is largely 
because almost all ETSs, including those in large economies 
such as in China, the EU, and Indonesia, cover electricity 
generation (Figure 3). Power sector decarbonization 
can enable further emissions reductions downstream 
as targeted electrification in the industrial and transport 
sectors would offer emissions reductions when fossil fuels 
are substituted with lower emissions electricity.39 However, 
as shown in the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing in the Power 
Sector report,40 market structure, regulatory frameworks, 
and decisions about where to position a carbon price in 
the value chain can limit the potential for carbon pricing to 
incentivize decarbonization, particularly in the power sector. 
The expansion of the China National ETS to include cement, 
steel, and aluminum increased global coverage for the 
industry sector to over 40%. This is a substantial increase 
to a diverse and large sector that includes manufacturing 
and construction and is responsible for around 20% of global 
GHG emissions.
Note: Based on World Bank analysis. Values are not additive due to rounding. Aviation and maritime carbon tax coverage are both less than 1%, 
waste ETS coverage is 1 %, and carbon tax coverage is < 1%.FIGURE 3
Share of economic sectors’ global GHG emissions covered by an ETS or carbon tax

--- PÁGINA 28 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202528
ETSs application to 
road transport and 
buildings—sectors 
traditionally not 
included in ETS 
frameworks—is 
expandingBeyond power and industry, other sectors tend to have 
lower levels of coverage. Almost 15% of the mining and 
extractives sector is covered by a direct carbon price. This 
sector accounts for around 13% of global GHG emissions 
and includes emissions from ore extraction, natural gas 
production, and fuel refining. Coverage is highest in the 
EU ETS due to the inclusion of fuel refining, followed by 
resource-rich economies such as South Africa, Australia 
and Canada. Approximately 12% of land transport emissions, 
which contribute around 13% of global GHG emissions, are 
covered by a direct carbon price. Buildings show similar 
coverage at 13% of emissions. Carbon prices in both of these 
sectors have historically been more commonly applied 
through upstream carbon taxes on fuels, which can cover 
smaller, more diffuse emissions sources, like buildings 
and vehicles. However, ETSs' application to road transport 
and buildings—sectors traditionally not included in ETS 
frameworks—is expanding, as noted in the Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD’s) 
Pricing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2024.41 Many ETSs (e.g., 
California's and New Zealand's) already apply upstream 
coverage to these emissions, while the introduction of 
the EU ETS2 in 2027 will expand the upstream approach 
currently applied by the Austrian and German ETSs to all 
EU member states. Domestic aviation emissions coverage 
stands at around 9%, with a dominant contribution from 
the EU. Coverage of international aviation and shipping 
emissions, which fall outside the Paris Agreement 
framework, continues to advance. International aviation 
emissions are priced through the Carbon Offsetting Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), a 
compliance market for carbon credits discussed in chapter 
3, and as of April 1, 2025, discussions at the International 
Maritime Organization regarding GHG emissions pricing for 
shipping were ongoing. 
Other sectors, such as agriculture and waste, remain 
largely uncovered by carbon pricing. Non-energy 
agricultural emissions, such as methane from livestock or 
emissions from the application of fertilizer, produce over 
12% of global emissions, but currently remain uncovered 
by an ETS or carbon tax. Other policies, including carbon 
crediting, are more typically used to reduce emissions in 
these sectors. However, Denmark is pioneering a first-of-a-
kind carbon tax on livestock and agricultural lime used as 
a fertilizer. The carbon tax will be implemented gradually, 
beginning in 2030. It will start at around USD 40 per tCO2e 
and rise to over USD 100 per tCO2e by 2035.42 The measure 
includes tax allowances to reduce impacts on farmers. 
Similarly, only a fraction of global emissions from waste 
(e.g., landfills and wastewater) face a carbon price, although 
scope expansions to include waste incineration have been 
made in Germany and Shenzhen and are being considered in 
the UK. 

--- PÁGINA 29 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202529
Interest in, and 
adoption of, rate-
based ETSs has 
been growingCarbon pricing policies continue to incorporate flexibility 
into instrument design. This includes specific flexibility 
mechanisms, such as banking and (less frequently) 
borrowing of emissions allowances, or multi-year 
compliance periods, to provide businesses with choices 
regarding if, when, and how to reduce emissions. Other 
design aspects are aimed at providing greater certainty on 
the carbon prices, which can help promote confidence in 
long-term investment decisions. All carbon taxes provide 
near-term certainty through legislated fixed prices, with 
some setting out planned rate increases—either linked to 
inflation (such as Colombia and Poland) or through planned 
price trajectories (such as Ireland, Singapore, South Africa, 
and Sweden). ETSs are increasingly adopting design 
elements to improve price certainty. Almost half have 
market stability reserves to help manage price extremes, 
and around 20% have price floors or auction reserve prices. 
Other jurisdictions, such as Germany and Austria, have 
implemented a fixed price on a transitional basis. Finally, 
as discussed in chapter 3, governments are increasingly 
allowing carbon credits to be used to offset carbon pricing 
liabilities. Almost two-thirds of ETSs and almost 20% of 
carbon taxes allow eligible carbon credits as a compliance 
option. 
Governments are increasingly considering rate-based 
ETSs, which offer flexibility in responding to changing 
economic conditions. Carbon pricing instruments can 
also adopt broader policy design elements to help meet 
jurisdictions’ broader policy objectives and account for 
their specific circumstances. For example, interest in, and 
adoption of, rate-based ETSs has been growing (Box 5). This includes rate-based ETSs in Australia, China, and 
Indonesia, as well as Türkiye’s proposed ETS. Colorado’s 
recently implemented ETS uses a rate-based approach and 
has been tailored to meet the state’s specific circumstances 
and to manage the risk of carbon leakage. Colorado is also 
providing flexibility in its approach to compliance cycles, 
with some entities initially being permitted to meet their 
emission liabilities over a three-year period. 

--- PÁGINA 30 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202530
BOX 5 
The growing role of rate-based emissions trading schemes
Rate-based ETSs are gaining traction, as more countries adopt flexible 
approaches to manage competitiveness and price impacts while driving 
decarbonization. Rate-based ETSs differ from cap-and-trade systems 
in that they do not set an overall cap on emissions. Instead, they regulate 
emissions relative to output and in some jurisdictions operate in a manner 
similar to tradable performance standards. Rate-based ETSs set benchmark 
emissions intensity levels, typically defined as a quantity of emissions per 
unit of output, such as 2 tCO2e per ton of steel produced. Each covered 
entity has an emissions constraint or “baseline,” which is calculated by 
multiplying its output by the benchmark emissions intensity. If a regulated 
entity’s emissions are below its baseline in a year, it can receive credits, 
and if emissions exceed the baseline, it must acquire and surrender credits 
equal to its excess emissions. Baselines can decline over time in line with a 
jurisdiction’s emissions reduction targets. Rate-based ETSs are becoming 
more common, especially in middle-income countries as governments seek 
to manage competitiveness and price impacts, particularly where future 
growth and hence demand is uncertain.43 
A rate-based approach is being used in Australia, Canada, China, and 
Indonesia. China’s national rate-based carbon trading system determines 
emissions limits based on the technology used by entities. The system 
is designed to avoid excessively penalizing companies that rely on older 
technologies, which are often located in poorer regions. It incentivizes the 
adoption of more efficient technologies but may not encourage a shift in 
fuel type, as coal and natural gas have separate technology-specific rates.44 
India is developing a nationwide ETS and currently operates an energy 
efficiency trading scheme called Perform, Achieve and Trade. Companies are assigned an energy-related GHG emission intensity target 
and earn tradable certificates if they exceed them. These certificates 
are traded on designated exchanges.45 Canada’s OBPS and Australia’s 
Safeguard Mechanisms are both rate-based systems that set emissions 
intensity standards for industrial sectors. 
Rate-based ETSs provide additional flexibility to businesses, but they 
provide less certainty on emissions reductions and generally do not 
generate revenue for governments. Due to the additional flexibility, 
rate-based systems can support economic growth while maintaining a 
requirement that entities improve their efficiency over time. Rate-based 
systems can also protect against carbon leakage—firms do not have an 
incentive to reduce production domestically to emit under their baseline, 
lowering the incentive to relocate production to jurisdictions with weaker 
carbon policies.46 On the other hand, if benchmarks are differentiated by 
technology or fuel type, it can be harder for clean firms to compete, since 
their less-efficient competitors receive higher baseline allocations per 
unit of the same product. From a macroeconomic perspective, rate-based 
ETSs automatically adjust to reflect growth in production. This can help 
manage political economy challenges by preventing high permit prices 
during economic growth and price drops during recessions. However, the 
absence of a cap means the level of emissions reductions delivered by 
a rate-based ETS is less certain than a cap-and-trade. Further, because 
rate-based ETSs allocate all emissions allowances to covered entities 
through baseline allocations, they do not generate government revenue 
(unless coupled with an additional mechanism, such as in Canada, where 
companies can comply with Canada’s OBPS by paying into a public fund).