DOCUMENTO: State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2025 (1)
PARTE 4 de 6
Páginas 46 a 60
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 46 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202546
In recent years, 
the linkages and 
overlaps across 
compliance 
and voluntary 
markets, as well as 
international and 
domestic markets, 
have increasedCHAPTER 3
Carbon crediting markets and mechanisms 
In 2024, carbon credit markets saw retirements increase, issuances stabilize, and average prices slightly decline. However, 
there has been increasing divergence in demand, supply, and prices across different types of credits. The growth in carbon 
credit retirements was mainly due to a spike in demand from domestic compliance markets, while demand from voluntary 
buyers dipped slightly. Supply continued to outstrip demand, moving the global pool of unretired credits from independent 
crediting mechanisms close to 1 billion tons. Pricing also shows differentiation across credit types. Credits from carbon 
removal projects (such as afforestation and reforestation) continue to exhibit price premiums, and credits eligible under 
international compliance markets and those with higher-quality ratings also attracted higher prices. 
3.1 Domestic compliance demand for carbon credits 
increased, while voluntary buyers shifted toward 
carbon removals
The carbon credit market landscape is complex, with 
increasing levels of overlap and interaction with carbon 
taxes and ETSs. Global carbon credit markets consist of a 
diverse range of sources of supply, sources of demand, and 
trading frameworks (Box 8). Historically, there were more 
discrete markets for carbon credits, where specific sources 
of supply were matched to distinct sources of demand. 
For example, independent crediting mechanisms largely 
supplied the voluntary buyers, while international crediting 
mechanisms were primarily used by countries to meet 
international commitments (e.g., under the Kyoto Protocol). 
In recent years, the linkages and overlaps across compliance 
and voluntary markets, as well as international and domestic 
markets, have increased. As a result, few sources of supply 
can be matched to a single source of demand (Figure 11). For example, certain carbon credits from independent crediting 
mechanisms (which have historically been used by voluntary 
buyers) are increasingly permitted in domestic compliance 
markets—such as in California, Chile, Colombia, and South 
Africa—in addition to being used by businesses to meet 
voluntary commitments.

--- PÁGINA 47 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202547
BOX 8
The carbon credit market landscape
Carbon credit markets trade “carbon credits,” which are units that 
represent an emission reduction, avoidance or removal equivalent to 
1-tCO2e, generated through voluntarily implemented mitigation activities. 
Emissions reductions can be generated, for instance, by destroying 
methane generated at landfills or meeting energy demand with solar or 
wind instead of fossil fuels. Avoided deforestation, including Reducing 
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, is another example 
of an emission reduction project. Carbon credits can also represent 
carbon dioxide removals from the atmosphere, such as sequestering 
carbon through afforestation or directly capturing carbon from the air and 
storing it. FIGURE 11
Sources of demand and supply in global carbon credit markets
Note: While there is crossover between categories, not all sources of carbon credits are fully fungible 
across demand segments. For example, international compliance and nationally determined contribution 
achievement require authorized credits that include a corresponding adjustment.

--- PÁGINA 48 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202548
The four main sources of demand for carbon credits are as follows:
• Domestic compliance: This consists of liable entities under mandatory 
compliance schemes, such as ETSs and carbon taxes, being allowed 
to purchase carbon credits to meet a portion of their compliance 
obligations. Examples include liable entities purchasing credits for 
compliance with Colombia’s carbon tax, the Republic of Korea’s ETS, 
and California’s Cap-and-Trade Program.
• International compliance: CORSIA, introduced by the International 
Civil Aviation Organization, is currently the only international sectoral 
compliance system. CORSIA requires covered airlines to offset the 
growth in their CO₂ emissions beyond 2019 levels by purchasing carbon 
credits issued by approved crediting mechanisms.
• Nationally determined contribution (NDC) achievement: This refers 
to sovereign demand for international carbon credits (internationally 
transferred mitigation outcomes) authorized under Article 6 of the 
Paris Agreement to meet (or outperform) national climate targets 
(articulated through NDCs submitted to the United Nations Framework 
Convention for Climate Change). Examples of sovereign buyers include 
Singapore and Switzerland. 
• Voluntary: This involves private entities purchasing carbon credits 
to meet voluntary mitigation commitments. These commitments 
include corporate net zero targets and other voluntary climate or 
environmental claims.The supply of carbon credits (discussed in Section 3.2) is generated 
through three main categories of crediting mechanisms:
• Governmental crediting mechanisms: These are administered by 
one or more national or sub-national governments. Examples of such 
mechanisms include the Thai-VER scheme, the Californian Compliance 
Offset Program, and the Australian Carbon Credit Unit Scheme.
• Independent crediting mechanisms: This category includes 
mechanisms administered by nongovernmental organizations. 
Examples include Verra’s Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and Gold 
Standard.
• International crediting mechanisms: These are administered or 
managed by an international organization established with the 
authority of national governments, such as UN agencies. The principal 
international crediting mechanism is the centralized Paris Agreement 
Crediting Mechanism (PACM), established under Article 6.4 of the Paris 
Agreement.

--- PÁGINA 49 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202549
Overall, carbon credit retirements rose, supported by 
increased demand from compliance buyers. Retirements 
reflect the annual use of carbon credits toward, for example, 
making specific claims or complying with a carbon pricing 
obligation. Retirements serve as a useful proxy for demand, 
as they do not include cross-temporal demand, such as 
buyers purchasing credits for future use. Total retirements 
in 2024 were around 15% higher than in 2023 (Figure 12). 
The rise is primarily attributable to a short-term spike in 
demand for compliance purposes (almost three times higher 
than in 2023), whereas total retirements for voluntary 
purposes declined slightly, year on year.viiAs a result, in 2024, 
retirements for compliance purposes accounted for almost 
a quarter of all observed retirements (compared to 9% in 
2023). Over half of compliance retirements in 2024 were 
from entities liable under the California and Québec ETSs,67 
where businesses were required to finalize obligations for 
the three-year compliance period (2021–2023) by November 
2024.viiiiWhile the increase in retirements was partly driven 
by these multi-year compliance cycles, compliance markets 
are nevertheless an important ongoing source of demand 
for carbon credits. This role may increase as new sources 
of compliance demand emerge (Box 9). This includes 
Singapore’s carbon tax and Korea’s ETS, which both permit 
the use of international credits. 
vi Based on analysis jointly delivered by the World Bank and AlliedOffsets.
vii For example, in California's cap-and-trade program, compliance periods are triennial, i.e., three years in length, with smaller annual events in between. For the program's fourth 
compliance period, covering 2021-2023, covered entities had to submit compliance instruments for 30% of their 2021 emissions in 2022; for 30% of their 2022 emissions in 2023; 
and then in 2024 for 70% of their 2021 emissions, 70% of their 2022 emissions, and 100% of their 2023 emissions. 
Note: Based on a joint analysis by the World Bank and AlliedOffsets.FIGURE 12
Total carbon credit retirements for compliance and voluntary purposes and demand sources for compliance 
retirements, 2023–2024

--- PÁGINA 50 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202550
Demand from voluntary buyers shifted toward nature-
based removals and clean cooking projects. Retirements 
of nature-based carbon removal credits (within the forestry 
and land use category) issued by independent crediting 
mechanisms rose by nearly 25%, through a combination 
of increased supply and buyer interest in credits from 
carbon removal projects. This marked a new high. New 
buyer interest was also reflected in the robust volume of 
capital flowing to nature-based carbon removal activities 
through long-term offtake commitments announced 
by investors and buyer groups such as the Symbiosis 
Coalition, a 20-million-ton advanced market commitment 
to purchase nature-based removals.68 The recognition of 
carbon removal credits in voluntary corporate net-zero 
targets, along with jurisdictions such as the UK considering 
the potential for incorporating removals into domestic 
carbon pricing instruments, could be contributing to this 
trend. Beyond removals, carbon credits generated by 
household technologies—namely clean cooking solutions—
also experienced a significant increase in demand, with 
retirements rising 50% compared to 2023. While retirements 
of credits from renewable energy projects declined slightly, 
the category still made up nearly one-third of all retirements 
recorded by independent crediting mechanisms in 2024 
(Figure 13).69 New purchasing commitments for engineered 
carbon removals emerged during 2024, with an estimated 
8 million tons purchased but only 318,000 tons delivered 
to buyers (a ratio of approximately 4%).70 The majority of 
purchasing commitments are therefore intended to support 
projects delivering credits in future years.
Note: Based on data from Climate Focus’s Voluntary Carbon Market Dashboard, using project categorizations based on those published by 
Ecosystem Marketplace. The volume of issuances and retirements by project category covers the following crediting mechanisms: American 
Carbon Registry, Architecture for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation Transactions, BioCarbon, Cercarbono, Climate 
Action Reserve, Climate Forward, Gold Standard, Plan Vivo, and Verra’s VCS. All issuance and retirement data here refers to original issuances, 
which only include the first time a credit was issued for a specific emission reduction/removal activity to avoid double counting. Original 
issuances do not rely on previous issuances from other crediting mechanisms.FIGURE 13
Carbon credit issuances and retirements from independent crediting mechanisms and volume of unretired 
credits, 2021–2024

--- PÁGINA 51 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202551
BOX 9
Interactions between carbon pricing and crediting 
mechanisms
Carbon crediting and pricing can complement one another, 
particularly where there are formalized links between them. Around 
40% of implemented ETSs and carbon taxes worldwide allow covered 
installations or companies to use carbon credits to meet part of their 
obligations, providing flexibility while channeling funds to lower-cost 
mitigation opportunities outside the regulated sectors.viii Most carbon 
pricing instruments cap this flexibility to a predetermined share to 
preserve emissions reductions from covered sectors while providing 
businesses with flexibility. For example, the Colombian carbon tax allows 
for a maximum of 50% of tax liabilities to be offset through carbon 
credits generated by independent crediting mechanisms. Similarly, Chile 
permitted companies to use carbon credits to offset their liabilities under 
their carbon tax from 2024. South Africa announced in March 2025 a 
proposed increase in the allowable use of carbon credit by 5%—increasing 
the quantitative limit to either 10% or 15% (depending on the sector) from 
January 2026.71 Some countries have also allowed companies to use 
international credits generated under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement 
for compliance purposes. For instance, Singapore allows companies to 
cover up to 5% of their carbon tax obligations with international credits, 
provided they are not double counted.72 Similarly, liable entities in the 
Republic of Korea can cover up to 5% of their ETS compliance obligations 
using carbon credits, including from international sources.73Carbon crediting can also build capacity to help implement carbon 
pricing and extend price incentives to uncovered sectors. The 
implementation of crediting mechanisms can help build institutions, 
monitoring systems, and regulatory frameworks. While these are not 
a prerequisite for all forms of carbon pricing (e.g., an upstream carbon 
tax would not require them), establishing frameworks, systems, and 
institutions can provide valuable learnings for countries considering a 
domestic compliance policy. Carbon crediting mechanisms have been 
frequently used to help incentivize decarbonization efforts in sectors not 
covered by an ETS or carbon tax, such as waste and the land sector. For 
example, the EU and UK are exploring the potential to integrate carbon 
removal into their respective ETSs.74
i 
viii Based on data directly provided by the jurisdictions, reflecting the share of jurisdictions that allow the use 
of offsets as a flexibility mechanism for compliance under an ETS or carbon tax.

--- PÁGINA 52 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202552
ICAO estimates 
that total demand 
during the first 
phase of CORSIA 
will be between 102 
and 148 million tonsDemand from CORSIA—the international compliance 
market for airlines—started to materialize, with large but 
uncertain estimates for future demand. The International 
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which oversees the 
scheme, introduced key updates in 2024 for the scheme’s 
first phase, which covers international aviation emissions 
from 2024 to 2026 and follows the voluntary pilot phase 
that concluded in 2023.75 These updates included approving 
additional crediting mechanisms and clarifying phase 1 
airline participation rules. In line with the commencement 
of phase 1, the International Air Transport Association 
(IATA) organized a procurement event (see Section 3.3). 
While this represents the first initial demand from phase 1, 
ICAO estimates that total demand during the first phase 
of CORSIA will be between 102 million and 148 million 
tons.76 This estimated cumulative demand would equate 
to between nearly half and three-quarters of the volume 
of carbon credits retired in 2024. However, given that 
enforcement of CORSIA obligations on airlines falls on 
national governments, the extent to which this demand 
materializes is dependent on when and how participating 
jurisdictions transfer CORSIA’s rules into national law. As of 
April 1, 2025, only Brazil, Canada, the EU, and the UK had 
commenced incorporating CORSIA into their domestic legal 
frameworks.77 
Guidance on claims around the use of carbon credits in 
voluntary corporate climate action remains fragmented 
and inconsistent. The Science Based Targets Initiative—a 
climate action organization that defines a science-based 
framework for achieving net zero goals—released its revised 
corporate net zero standard for public consultation in March 2025. The draft standard would allow companies to use 
carbon removal credits to achieve both near- and long-term 
targets, but it continues to limit the use of other types of 
carbon credits to beyond value chain mitigation only.78 Other 
frameworks for corporate use of carbon credits are also 
undergoing revisions. In September 2024, the Voluntary 
Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative—a nonprofit providing 
guidance on corporate climate action through the voluntary 
use of carbon credits—launched a public consultation on 
its updated guidelines for corporate claims. It has also 
developed a Scope 3 Action Code of Practice for companies 
interested in addressing value chain emissions.79 These 
guidelines propose the use of carbon credits until 2038 
for scope 3 claims in order to allow companies flexibility 
in their science-aligned decarbonization. In addition, the 
International Organization for Standardization—a global, 
nonprofit organization that develops and publishes quality 
and safety standards across industries—started the 
development of its own international standard for net zero 
corporate accounting. The draft standard and its guidance 
on the role of carbon credits is yet to be made public.80  In 
parallel, jurisdictions such as the EU and UK have been 
adopting policies to guide offset-related claims.81 While 
these regulations differ in scope and stringency, they 
generally adopt a cautious approach toward using carbon 
credits in climate claims, pushing for high environmental 
integrity and improved transparency (where carbon credits 
are permitted).

--- PÁGINA 53 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202553
Carbon credit insurance products continue to evolve 
to help manage uncertainty and scale investment in 
carbon markets. As in other industries, insurance can play 
a critical role in de-risking and scaling up investments in 
carbon credit projects, in turn boosting demand and trust 
in the market. A range of specialized insurance products 
are currently offered, from carbon delivery insurance 
solutions (e.g., covering physical or reversal risks82), to 
political risk insurance (e.g., protecting against confiscation, 
nationalization, license cancellation, or revocation of 
authorization under Article 683), to warranty and indemnity 
policies (e.g., policy protecting buyers or investors against 
environmental integrity issues84). Beyond primary insurance 
products, the market is actively exploring reinsurance 
solutions to help insurers manage exposure and expand 
capacity—key to fostering more resilient and scalable 
insurance markets.85 In parallel to these commercial 
insurance solutions, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
Agency (MIGA) issued its first political risk guarantee for a 
project supporting the host country’s commitment under 
the Paris Agreement: a USD 180 million policy for a clean 
cookstove project in Kenya.86 In addition to covering the 
risks of expropriation, transfer restriction, and war and 
civil disturbance, the policy also offers breach of contract 
coverage against the risk of the host country failing to 
uphold corresponding adjustments in international
ix Corresponding adjustments under the Paris Agreement refer to a key accounting mechanism designed to avoid double counting of emissions reductions or carbon removals 
when countries transfer credits generated under Article 6 across borders. Where credits are authorized toward the achievement of NDCs, the transferring country is to apply a 
corresponding adjustment to their GHG emissions inventory. Credits may also be authorized for other international mitigation purposes, such as international compliance under 
CORSIA.compliance markets and NDC achievement.ixiiiFor example, 
to safeguard CORSIA buyers, independent crediting 
mechanisms including the Gold Standard have released 
guidelines on the eligibility of issued carbon credits 
under CORSIA, making explicit reference to MIGA’s 
political risk insurance as the pre-approved insurance 
provider (while exploring the possibility of expanding the 
list of eligible insurers to commercial entities as well). 
These advancements in insurance product innovation in 
response to buyers’ increasing concerns signal the growing 
sophistication of international carbon markets.
Insurance can play 
a critical role in de-
risking and scaling 
up investments 
in carbon credit 
projects

--- PÁGINA 54 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202554
Issuances from 
governmental 
crediting 
mechanisms were 
just over 10% of 
total issuances from 
all mechanisms3.2 Carbon credit supply levels declined slightly, while 
groundwork was laid for new supply from international 
mechanisms 
Governmental crediting mechanisms have remained 
a stable source of supply of carbon credits, offering 
flexibility to meet domestic compliance demand. As 
of April 1, 2025, there were 33 governmental crediting 
mechanisms in place, with an additional 11 under 
consideration or in development (Figure 14). This represents 
two fewer implemented than in 2024, due to the Indo-
Pacific Carbon Offsets Scheme ceasing operations, and the 
consolidation of Beijing’s two crediting mechanisms into 
a single program. In 2024, issuances from governmental 
crediting mechanisms were just over 10% of total issuances 
from all mechanisms, matching the share observed in 
2023.xivThe largest sources of supply were issued by more 
mature mechanisms, including the Australian Carbon Credit 
Unit Scheme and California’s Compliance Offset Program. 
At the same time, progress achieved on operationalizing 
domestic supply initiatives in developing and emerging 
countries indicates that further growth from governmental 
crediting mechanisms is on the horizon. 
x Based on data collected by the World Bank on governmental crediting mechanisms and the Climate Focus carbon market dashboard intelligence, April 1, 2025.

--- PÁGINA 55 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202555
FIGURE 14 
Map of governmental crediting mechanisms as of April 1, 2025 
Note: An instrument “under development” means that a government is actively working toward implementing a 
crediting mechanism, and official government sources have formally confirmed this. This includes, for example, 
where a mandate has been established but no credits have been issued. If a government has announced its 
intention to work toward implementing a crediting mechanism and official government sources formally confirm that 
intention, the instrument is “under consideration.” For those countries with multiple crediting mechanisms that have 
both “under development” or “under consideration” and “implemented” crediting mechanisms, the map will show the 
status of the latter. The status of crediting mechanisms in subnational jurisdictions is also reflected in the map.


--- PÁGINA 56 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202556
Several countries clarified rules to create, trade, and use 
carbon credits both domestically and internationally. 
China recommenced issuances under the China Certified 
Emissions Reductions Scheme, issuing 9.5 million tCO2e on 
March 6 from offshore wind and solar thermal projects.87 
This follows clarification by the government of trading rules 
and the approval of several new methodologies targeting 
afforestation, mangrove cultivation, and renewable 
energy. The Indian government also made progress toward 
implementing its governmental crediting mechanism. 
Following the establishment of its institutional framework 
in 2023, the government approved eight methodologies 
in March 2025 under its proposed crediting mechanism 
covering a range of activities, including renewable 
energy, industrial energy efficiency, landfill methane, and 
mangrove afforestation and reforestation.88 In December 
2024 Chile expanded the list of independent crediting 
mechanisms admissible under its domestic carbon tax—
adding BioCarbon and Cercarbono to the list of eligible 
international and independent crediting mechanisms.89 
In August 2024, Egypt adopted before regulation to 
allow trade of carbon credits through its national stock 
exchange.90 Collectively, these institutional frameworks 
promote access to carbon credits from in-country projects. 
Beyond rules for governmental crediting mechanisms, 
several countries (such as Paraguay, Tanzania, Viet Nam, 
and Zambia) also adopted frameworks to provide the 
legal and institutional basis necessary for participation in 
international markets.91 This includes, for example, defining 
rules, requirements, and responsibilities for obtaining 
host country authorization for different uses; identifying 
activities eligible to generate credits under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement; and determining revenue sharing 
arrangements associated with implementation and trade. 
Several countries are developing infrastructure to support 
engagement in international carbon markets including 
the development of new carbon credit registries and the 
adoption of commercial registry systems managed by 
third-party service providers. The former are underway in 
Bhutan and Ghana, and Chile and Indonesia are considering 
the latter.92
Several countries 
are developing 
infrastructure 
to support 
engagement in 
international carbon 
markets

--- PÁGINA 57 ---

A total of 290 
million credits 
were issued by the 
major independent 
crediting 
mechanisms, 
representing 
a year-on-
year decline of 
approximately 5%
State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202557
Annual issuances from independent crediting 
mechanisms dipped in 2024, driven by declines in 
supply from historically dominant avoided deforestation 
projects. A total of 290 million credits were issued by the 
major independent crediting mechanisms,xivrepresenting 
a year-on-year decline of approximately 5% (Figure 13), 
though there is significant variation across independent 
crediting mechanisms.93 Supply from avoided deforestation 
programs was about half of 2023 issuances, against a 
backdrop of concerns about the perceived environmental 
integrity of projects, and the transition to a new 
methodology for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation 
and Forest Degradation (REDD+) by Verra, the largest issuer 
of avoided deforestation projects. 
Conversely, some project types experienced increased 
credit issuances in 2024. For example, issuances of 
credits from nature-based carbon removal projects—
particularly from improved forest management and 
afforestation/reforestation activities—increased by nearly 
20% compared to 2023 levels. Issuances from renewable 
energy projects stabilized, with no visible sign that last 
year’s decision by the Integrity Council for the Voluntary 
Carbon Market (ICVCM)xiivito reject key methodologies 
is affecting the incentives for project developers to 
issue credits. Issuances from activities distributing 
household devices, particularly improved and clean 
cookstove projects, experienced strong growth, nearly 
matching issuances from renewable energy activities 
xi The retirement and supply data from independent crediting mechanisms presented in this report covers the following mechanisms: American Carbon Registry, Architecture for 
REDD+ Transactions, BioCarbon, Cercarbono, Climate Action Reserve, Climate Forward, Gold Standard, Plan Vivo, and Verra’s VCS. 
xii The ICVCM is a nongovernmental initiative that aims to provide a minimum benchmark of supply-side quality.for the first time. This indicates the continued interest 
in clean cookstove projects, despite environmental 
integrity concerns relating to older projects remaining 
eligible to issue credits for the duration of their crediting 
periods. Leading concerns include the use of outdated 
values representing the proportion of biomass harvested 
unsustainably, and assumptions about the share of devices 
operating and frequency of their use.94 

--- PÁGINA 58 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202558
Overall, supply continued to exceed retirement 
volumes, with the global pool of unretired credits from 
independent crediting mechanisms approaching 1 
billion tons (Figure 13).xiiiviiA large share of these unretired 
credits, however, relate to “legacy” credits issued many 
years ago that are not finding any buyers in the market.95 
As of early 2025, over two-thirds of unretired credits from 
independent crediting mechanisms were from pre-2022 
vintages (i.e., the reductions or removals occurred before 
2022).96 The most common unretired credits originate from 
forestry and land use (36%) and renewable energy (30%) 
projects, which is consistent with their status as the largest 
sources of issued carbon credits (Figure 15).
xiii This excludes unretired certified emission reductions (CERs) from the clean development mechanism.FIGURE 15
Breakdown of unretired credits from independent crediting mechanisms by project type and credit vintage, as 
of April 2025


--- PÁGINA 59 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202559
Project originations are showing early signs of the 
potential impacts of the ICVCM’s recent decisions. 
Most notably, the number of renewable energy projects 
listedxiv
viii—which also make up a significant share of 
historical issuances—declined by over 40%, coinciding with 
ICVCM’s announcement that existing renewable energy 
methodologies will not receive approval under its Core 
Carbon Principles (CCP) framework (Figure 16).xvixWhile 
the overall number of listed household devices projects 
declined, nearly half of all the new projects in the pipeline 
aim to apply one of the three cookstove methodologies 
recently approved by the ICVCM. There has also been a 
rise in the number of projects using CCP-approved REDD+ 
methodologies, including Verra’s VCS and ART’s The REDD+ 
Environmental Excellence Standard (TREES).97 A direct 
causal link between these trends and ICVCM decisions is 
challenging to establish. However, listing data suggests 
that the project developers and other supply-side market 
participants are responding to the ICVCM’s endorsements 
of specific methodologies, and that the CCPs may be seen 
as a minimum benchmark of supply-side quality for project 
developers. 
xiv A listing occurs before a project is approved and registered by a crediting mechanism. It means the project or program has been submitted for consideration but has not yet 
completed the validation (audit) process.
xv The CCP labellng process is designed to provide a minimum benchmark of supply-side quality by identifying and recognizing high-integrity carbon credits. Approved crediting 
mechanisms can submit their methodologies to the organization, which evaluates them against a set of principles set out in the ICVCM’s Assessment Framework. A CCP label can 
subsequently be associated with carbon credits that are issued against approved methodologies (including specific versions of methodologies). The ICVCM, however, does not 
assess individual projects. 
xvi “Project listings” include new programs of activities, voluntary project activities, and standalone projects as per January 1sof any given year. The project listings data from 
independent crediting mechanisms presented in the figure covers the following mechanisms: American Carbon Registry, Architecture for REDD+ Transactions, BioCarbon, 
Cercarbono, Climate Action Reserve, Climate Forward, Gold Standard, Plan Vivo, and Verra’s VCS. FIGURE 16 
The evolution of new project listings in independent crediting 
mechanisms by categoryxvix 


--- PÁGINA 60 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202560
Changes in issuances due to project registration 
preferences, including shifts due to CCP labeling, 
have yet to materialize. Uncertainty also exists in the 
relationship between registrations and issuances, noting 
that the volume of issuances is not necessarily directly 
related to project listings or registrations.xviixiAs of January 
2025, just over 40 million carbon credits were issued 
with the CCP label, with the majority representing credits 
from the Verra registry (Figure 17). A much larger share—
nearly 40% of historical supply—has been issued against 
methodologies that have been rejected by the ICVCM. 
While several governments, such as the UK, have started 
aligned their principles for high-integrity voluntary carbon 
markets with the ICVCM’s CCPs,98 CCP labels are currently 
not formally embedded in decision-making in international 
compliance or domestic compliance markets. 
xvii Certain project types (e.g., jurisdictional REDD+ programs) will generally produce higher volumes of credits per project compared to others related to more local, smaller activities, 
such as those related to household devices.
FIGURE 17
Composition of issuances from independent crediting mechanisms by CCP-label status, million tCO2e