DOCUMENTO: State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2025 (1)
PARTE 3 de 6
Páginas 31 a 45
======================================================================


--- PÁGINA 31 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202531
Inflation has eroded 
the real value of 
carbon taxes2.2 Despite inflationary pressures, carbon prices 
held steady in real terms, but with variation across 
jurisdictions  
ii In its Effective Carbon Rates 2023 report, the OECD observed a reduction in real carbon tax rates in the road transport sector due to a lack of indexation to inflation.Nominal carbon prices increased slightly in the 12 
months prior to April 1, 2025. At an individual policy level, 
there was a range of nominal carbon price changes. Slight 
nominal price increases were observed in large ETSs, 
such as in the China, EU, and the Republic of Korea ETSs. 
Other ETSs, such as in California and New Zealand, saw 
slight decreases. Several established carbon taxes saw the 
implementation of planned increases in tax rates, including 
in Colombia, Denmark, Estonia, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, 
and South Africa, but most of these were modest. Figure 4 
shows the prices as of April 1, 2025, across ETSs and carbon 
taxes and different degrees of coverage.
Inflation has had varied effects on carbon prices, 
depending on policy design. In Chile, France, and Spain, tax 
rates in real terms have fallen over time and thus inflation 
has eroded the real value of carbon taxes.iiiSome carbon 
taxes—for example in Colombia and South Africa—include 
an automatic adjustment for inflation. There is often a lag 
in applying the inflation adjustment so the price may see an 
initial decrease in real terms before the adjustment takes 
effect. Other countries, such as Singapore, have planned 
rate rises to increase price incentives even with inflation. 
Inflation—like other macroeconomic fluctuations—affects 
ETSs differently from carbon taxes, because ETS prices 
adjust dynamically based on supply and demand within the emissions cap. Inflation can influence expectations of both 
supply and demand, but ultimately carbon prices in ETSs 
align with the ambition reflected in the cap. 
 

--- PÁGINA 32 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202532
FIGURE 4
Prices and coverage across ETSs and carbon taxes, as of April 1, 2025 


--- PÁGINA 33 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202533
FIGURE 5
Emissions-weighted average carbon prices for covered emissions and global emissions, 
2015–2025
Note: The purple line shows the global emissions-weighted average carbon price. This price accounts for all 
global emissions, including those without a carbon price. Jurisdictions without a carbon price are included in the 
calculation of the global emissions-weighted average carbon price, but treated as having a carbon price of zero. 
The global emissions-weighted average carbon price metric provides an indication of global progress of carbon 
pricing, taking both price and coverage into account. The blue/red bars show average carbon price for implemented 
instruments. The global emissions-weighted average carbon price provides an estimate of the weighted average 
carbon price across countries with an implemented ETS or carbon tax. That is, each implemented carbon price is 
weighted by its contribution to global covered emissions, with covered emissions defined as the total emissions in 
each jurisdiction that are subject to that jurisdiction’s carbon pricing instrument. As a result, the global emissions-
weighted average carbon price only accounts for prices in those jurisdictions that have implemented a carbon 
price—it does not include those jurisdictions without a carbon price. The average carbon price for implemented 
instruments therefore provides a global snapshot of how carbon prices have changed over time in jurisdictions that 
have implemented a carbon price.
iii The average carbon price provides an estimate of the emissions-weighted average carbon price across countries with an implemented ETS or carbon tax. The contribution of each implemented ETS and carbon tax to the average price is 
determined by the amount of emissions it covers.Average carbon prices have increased over the past 
10 years. The average carbon priceiiiiifor implemented 
instruments has almost doubled in the past 10 years in real 
terms—from just above USD 10 per tCO2e in 2015 to around 
USD 19 per tCO2e in 2025 (see Figure 5). The contribution of 
carbon taxes to these average covered carbon prices has 
remained relatively stable over this period. The increase was 
primarily driven by allowance prices in the EU ETS, which 
saw significant rises over the past 10 years. Recognizing 
that most global emissions (over 70%) do not currently face 
a carbon price, Figure 5 also includes a global emissions-
weighted average carbon price. This metric accounts for 
the unpriced emissions in economies without an ETS or a 
carbon tax and therefore reflects changes in both price and 
global coverage over time. The global emissions-weighted 
average carbon price in 2025 was around USD 5 per tCO2e—
over four times higher than the value in 2015. Importantly, 
these carbon pricing metrics provide a useful indication of 
progress, but they should not be interpreted as a measure 
of ambition or effort.47 In addition, as noted in the report 
of the Joint Task Force on Climate Action, Carbon Pricing 
and Policy Spillovers, aggregated metrics (at the national or 
global level) can mask the heterogeneity of carbon prices 
across jurisdictions, sectors, fuels, and products.48 

--- PÁGINA 34 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202534
The price incentives 
provided through 
indirect carbon 
pricing are often 
considerably larger 
than the incentives 
provided by ETSs 
and carbon taxesHowever, the average direct carbon prices only tell 
part of the story. Overall, the existing price levels of ETSs 
and carbon taxes remain below the levels found in the 
modeled scenarios that achieve global temperature goals, 
as assessed by several organizations. In 2017, the High-
Level Commission on Carbon Prices estimated that direct 
carbon prices (in 2017 USD) of at least USD 40 to 80 per 
tCO2e by 2020 and USD 50 to USD 100 per tCO2e by 2030 
were consistent with limiting temperature rises to well 
below 2ºC.49 In the 2022 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change Sixth Assessment Report, the modeled scenarios 
that limit warming to 2°C have a marginal abatement cost 
around USD 90 per tCO2e (in 2015 USD) in 2030 and USD 
210 per tCO2e in 2050.50 In the Network for Greening the 
Financial System’s most recent update in November 2024, 
the scenarios consistent with a transition toward net zero in 
2050 have a carbon price (in USD 2010) of around USD 300/
tCO2e by 2035.51 Any comparison to these benchmark levels 
must consider the spectrum of pricing and non-pricing 
policies that can support decarbonization efforts. In relation 
to pricing policies, indirect carbon prices, such as fuel taxes, 
provide an important price incentive that is not captured in 
the direct carbon pricing metrics that are the focus of this 
report. In most regions, due to the prevalence of fuel excise 
taxes, the price incentives provided through indirect carbon 
pricing are often considerably larger than the incentives 
provided by ETSs and carbon taxes. This is the case in Latin America where several countries have recently reformed 
fuel taxes. The combination of higher direct carbon prices, 
the alignment of energy excise taxes with broader fiscal and 
climate policy, and the elimination of fossil fuel subsidies 
has resulted in an increase in the total carbon price in Latin 
America (Box 6).

--- PÁGINA 35 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202535
BOX 6
Total carbon pricing in Latin America 
Developments in Latin America highlight how broader fiscal reforms 
that improve the carbon price incentive might complement progress 
on carbon pricing for fuel combustion-based emissions. Direct 
carbon pricing through carbon taxation and emissions trading provides 
a powerful incentive to reduce emissions across an economy. Changes 
to indirect carbon pricing policies, such as fuel excise taxes and fossil 
fuel subsidies, can also significantly influence production, consumption, 
and investment choices. The World Bank’s total carbon priceiv provides 
a comprehensive picture of the overall carbon price incentive by 
incorporating both direct and indirect carbon pricing policies.52 Similarly, 
the OECD publishes its net effective carbon rates, which combine indirect 
(which OECD terms “implicit”) carbon pricing and direct carbon pricing for 
79 countries.53In Latin America net energy tax rates are being adjusted upward 
following reductions implemented during the global energy crisis. In 
2022, amid high inflation and rising energy prices, governments in Latin 
America, as in many other regions, provided price relief to consumers 
through reduced fuel taxation and increased fuel subsidies. Over the 
past two years, many of these measures have been reversed, with excise 
taxes being restored to their pre-crisis levels and some subsidies being 
phased out. As a consequence, for most countries in Latin America the 
total carbon price has recovered from recent downward trends (Figure 
6) and is now positive. Fuel subsidies have been reduced in several 
countries, including Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Taxes have also 
increased in Argentina, Chile, and Mexico, as the excise rates of fuel 
taxes in the latter two countries are formally linked with oil prices. While 
the drivers for subsidy reforms are different across countries, some 
governments are acknowledging that the public budget requirements of 
fossil fuel subsidies divert resources that could be used to meet broader 
policy objectives. A key outcome of these reforms is that Latin American 
governments now have additional fiscal space. For example, in Colombia, 
the finance minister called for eliminating fuel subsidies to reallocate 
resources toward social spending while addressing climate change,54 
and Ecuador’s central bank acknowledged that fuel subsidies are less 
beneficial for the economy than targeting the same resources at social 
spending or public investment in education, energy, health, security, and 
roads.55i 
iv The price gap approach developed by Agnolucci et al. (2023) was complemented by a bottom-up 
approach developed by Campmas et al. (forthcoming). The World Bank’s Total Carbon Pricing approach 
is a comprehensive methodology designed to calculate the overall carbon pricing signal affecting the 
emissions from CO2 emitting fuels based on local data—detailed if possible—on both direct carbon pricing 
instruments, such as carbon taxes and ETSs, and indirect instruments like energy taxes, subsidies, and 
VAT differentials. This approach helps standardize, aggregate, and compare the level of carbon pricing 
efforts across different jurisdictions, sectors, and policy instruments. Total Carbon Price estimates with 
this bottom-up approach include several instruments (such as sectoral tax exemptions, local taxes on 
certain fuels, price interventions, or fuel price stabilization mechanisms) that are not considered in other 
methodologies but have significant effects on final prices.

--- PÁGINA 36 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202536
FIGURE 6
Total carbon price by component in Latin America, 2016–2024 
Note: Average total carbon pricing for CO2 emissions from fuel combustion in Latin America, weighted by the 
share of each country’s CO2 emissions from fuel combustion over the sample total. Values in 2022 USD. The 
countries included in the sample are Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Dominica, Jamaica, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, 
St. Lucia, and Uruguay, from 2017 to 2023 and up to 2024 when preliminary data was available.While direct carbon pricing instruments are an important part of the 
total carbon price, their contribution remains relatively low compared 
to fossil fuel taxes (and subsidies), particularly in the transport 
sector. Over the past five years, direct carbon pricing, primarily through 
carbon taxes, has contributed less than 13% to the total carbon price 
aggregated across Latin American countries.
Across Latin America, diesel and gasoline typically face a high total 
carbon price while natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 
are largely untaxed or even subsidized. Because excise taxes and 
subsidies are not referenced to emissions, or in some cases are only 
applied selectively, the total carbon price differs substantially across 
fuels and sectors. Even though taxes are high for both diesel and 
gasoline, CO2 emissions from diesel are priced substantially lower than 
those from gasoline (Figure 7). In the transport sector, diesel taxation 
is lower due to concerns about the inflationary impact of increased 
transportation costs for goods and services. In several countries natural 
gas has been promoted, and natural gas has remained largely untaxed 
and has benefited from other measures that support its use. This has 
resulted in a slightly negative total carbon price. Similarly, LPG also has a 
negative total carbon price, although subsidies directed toward LPG have 
typically been aimed at shifting households away from higher-emitting 
fuels. Coal remains essentially untaxed. Importantly, these estimates do 
not include emissions from agriculture and land use change—including 
deforestation—which represent more than 40% of GHG emissions in the 
region.

--- PÁGINA 37 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202537
FIGURE 7
Carbon prices by fuel in Latin America, 2017–2024 
Note: Average total carbon pricing for CO2 emissions of each fuel in Latin America, weighted by the share of 
each country on CO2 emissions from each of the fuels over the sample total. Values in 2022 USD. The 
countries included in the sample are Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Dominica, Jamaica, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, 
St. Lucia, and Uruguay, from 2017 to 2023 and up to 2024 when preliminary data was available.Stark differences in the total carbon price across fuels and sectors 
dampen incentives to adopt energy efficiency measures or the switch 
to lower emission alternatives. The World Bank’s report Taxing and 
Subsidizing Energy in Latin America and the Caribbean: Insights from a 
Total Carbon Price Approach concludes that reform of existing taxes and/
or the introduction of direct carbon pricing instruments could allow better 
alignment of the carbon price incentive across fuels and, combined 
with complementary actions at the sector level, would provide stronger 
incentives for technological transformation and mitigation of GHG.56

--- PÁGINA 38 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202538
An increasing number of organizations are using 
internal carbon prices as a tool to help manage climate-
related risks, capture opportunities, and inform 
capital investment decisions. While administratively 
and operationally different to carbon taxes and ETSs, 
businesses’ use of internal carbon pricing offers insights 
into how the private sector is incorporating carbon pricing 
into its business decisions. According to data reported 
to the global nonprofit CDP, 1,753 companies across 56 
countries reported using internal carbon pricing in 2024—an 
89% increase on the 927 companies that reported using an 
internal carbon price in 2021 (Figure 8). The drivers behind 
the increase center on a continued need to decarbonize 
investments, promote energy efficiency, set and/or achieve 
climate-related policies and targets, and incentivize 
consideration of climate-related issues in decision-making 
and risk assessments. Shadow carbon pricing, which 
assigns a theoretical cost to emissions to help evaluate 
investments and organizational decisions, is increasingly the 
dominant type of internal carbon price used by companies. 
Note: Companies may report using multiple types of internal carbon prices (e.g., a shadow price and an internal fee). The 
percentages are also based on companies who disclose their choice of instrument. Therefore, the sum of reported use of 
internal carbon price type is not equal to the total number of organizations with an internal carbon price. Source: CDPFIGURE 8
Number of organizations using an internal carbon price and share of type of internal carbon price used, 
2021–2024

--- PÁGINA 39 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202539
The level of 
internal carbon 
price applied by 
companies in 2024 
varied significantlyFor organizations that disclosed the type of internal 
carbon price they use, almost two-thirds of organizations 
adopted a shadow carbon price in 2024. This is a 
significant increase from 2021, where shadow carbon pricing 
was used by around half of the reporting organizations 
(Figure 8). The second most common is internal carbon fees 
(15%), which put a monetary value on emissions to fund 
sustainability initiatives, followed by implicit carbon pricing 
(13%), where the carbon price is calculated retrospectively 
based on the costs of implementing emissions reduction 
projects. The level of internal carbon price applied by 
companies in 2024 varied significantly—from under USD 10 
per tCO2e to over USD 130 per tCO2e, with around a quarter 
of organizations applying a price of less than USD 20 per 
tCO2e. Higher internal carbon prices are becoming more 
common—in 2024 15% of companies applied a price above 
USD 130 per tCO2e, an increase from 11% in 2023. 

--- PÁGINA 40 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202540
2.3 Global carbon pricing revenues declined slightly, but 
continue to deliver over USD 100 billion to government 
budgets 
Carbon pricing continues to provide a small but 
important revenue stream for public budgets. There 
are increasing demands for public resources, including 
to support decarbonization, build resilience, and protect 
nature and biodiversity, in addition to broader budgetary 
demands.57 This places additional pressure on public 
finance and debt sustainability, meaning many countries 
are investigating options for fiscal consolidation and 
domestic revenue mobilization. However, despite these 
additional pressures, and its broader fiscal advantages, 
carbon revenues in 2024 declined slightly from 2023 highs—
hovering at just over USD 100 billion. The contribution and 
year-on-year change differs between ETSs and carbon 
taxes. Revenues from ETSs decreased by around 10%, in 
real terms, driven by a reduction in revenue from large 
ETSs, including in the EU, the UK, and in the US states of 
California and Washington (Figure 9). These reductions were 
largely due to generally lower allowance prices during 2024 
compared to 2023. In the EU (the largest contributor to 
global revenue), the decline in collected revenues occurred 
despite the continued reduction of free allocations, which 
increases auction volumes and the associated revenue base. FIGURE 9
Total revenues from ETSs and carbon taxes, 2015–2024


--- PÁGINA 41 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202541
While USD 100 
billion in carbon 
revenue reflects a 
three-fold increase 
over the past 
decade, it remains 
a fraction of total 
government tax 
revenueThe fall in ETS revenue contrasts with carbon taxes, 
which experienced an increase of approximately 10%, 
albeit from a smaller base. This increase was driven by 
increases across several carbon taxes, including in Mexico, 
Norway, Portugal, Switzerland, and Canada’s federal fuel 
charge before it was removed beginning April 1, 2025. 
While USD 100 billion in carbon revenue reflects a three-
fold increase over the past decade, it remains a fraction 
of total government tax revenue collected globally and 
significantly less than the USD 620 billion spent on fossil fuel 
consumption subsidies in 2023.58
Revenue collected from carbon pricing has been used for 
multiple purposes. This includes promoting environmental 
and development outcomes, such as investments targeting 
clean energy projects. For example, California has directed 
almost USD 28 billion (cumulatively) collected from its ETS 
toward projects that help deliver specific objectives, such 
as decarbonization, public health, and economic growth.59 
Carbon revenues are also being used to manage the impact 
of rising costs through transfers by supporting affected 
businesses and households, which can help create jobs 
where revenues are used to reskill workers. Almost 9% 
of EU ETS revenues were allocated to promote improved 
social outcomes, including skill development.60 Carbon 
pricing revenue has also been used to offset labor taxes, 
which can promote economic growth through higher labor 
productivity.61 For example, in Denmark the carbon tax was 
introduced in the 1990s in a revenue-neutral way as part of 
a larger environmental tax package. Additional case studies 
are summarized in Box 7.

--- PÁGINA 42 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202542
BOX 7
Three real-world examples of carbon pricing revenue 
allocation or planned use 
• Supporting vulnerable groups under 
EU ETS2: In the EU, the Social Climate 
Fund was created to sit alongside the 
forthcoming EU ETS2, which becomes fully 
operational in 2027. The Social Climate Fund 
is intended to provide vulnerable sectors 
and groups with financial support in the 
transition to net zero. A key component is 
the development of National Social Climate 
Plans, through which financial support 
is directed to identified affected groups. 
Measures can include energy efficiency 
and renovation of buildings; low-carbon 
transport; and clean heating and cooling.62 • Supporting industrial decarbonization 
and compensating indigenous 
communities in Brazil: Brazil’s law 
establishing its ETS prescribes how future 
carbon revenues must be allocated in the 
first five years: 15% to the operationalization 
and maintenance of the ETS, 75% to finance 
decarbonization of activities at covered 
facilities, and at least 5% to compensate 
Indigenous peoples and communities.63• Compensating households in Canada: 
In Canada, revenues from the federal fuel 
charge (prior to its repeal in April 2025) 
were rebated to households, with additional 
supplements for rural households and large 
families. Initially, the rebate was designed 
as a tax cut until the government began 
directly depositing rebates. However, 
studies found that only 12% of respondents 
in 2022 knew that the revenues were 
redistributed as rebates. In 2023, the 
Canadian government made updates 
requiring all banks to include labels to clarify 
the link between the carbon tax and the 
rebate.64 

--- PÁGINA 43 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202543
An increasing proportion of carbon pricing revenue is 
being directed toward low-carbon development projects. 
Analysis from the Institute for Climate Economics (I4CE) 
indicates that in 2024 around 56% of carbon revenues 
were earmarked toward environment, infrastructure, and 
development projects, over four percentage points higher 
than in 2018.viiiThis trend partly explains the rising number 
of green funds, for example in Colombia, Portugal, and 
Québec. These funds are mostly geared toward climate 
mitigation, climate adaptation, and low-carbon innovation. 
Around 25% of global carbon revenue was used to offset 
the social impact of the transition in 2024, either through 
direct transfers of these proceeds to households and 
companies impacted by carbon pricing (19%) or through tax 
cuts (6%) (Figure 10). This share has increased since 2018, 
mainly due to a growing portion of transfers in the EU ETS, 
increased revenues collected through Canada’s federal 
fuel charge (returned to the citizens through the Canada 
Carbon Rebate), and the implementation of new policies 
(German and Austrian ETSs), which dedicate all or part of the 
proceeds toward easing the transition for households and 
businesses.
v Note: I4CE analysis is based on revenue use in 2024, except for EU where revenue use is inferred based on 2023 revenue allocations and mandated allocations, e.g., the latest 
revision of the EU ETS Directive increased the targeted EU ETS revenue use toward climate and energy objectives from 50% to 100%. FIGURE 10
Share of ETS and carbon tax revenue by category, 2018–2024 


--- PÁGINA 44 ---

State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 202544
While free 
allocation can 
help manage 
carbon leakage 
and international 
competitiveness 
concerns, it reduces 
the revenues 
collected by 
governmentsFree allocations, tax exemptions, and use of carbon 
credits as offsets represent foregone government 
revenue. To help ease the introduction of ETSs, it is 
common, at least initially, to allocate allowances freely, 
rather than selling via auction. While free allocation can help 
manage carbon leakage and international competitiveness 
concerns, it reduces the revenues collected by 
governments. I4CE analysis indicates that forgone annual 
revenue (as represented by the estimated value of freely 
allocated allowances) in 2023 for implemented cap-and-
trade systems with auctioning was around USD 67 billion, 
which is close to the total revenue generated by ETSs.65 
Similarly, in the UK it is projected that the future phaseout 
of free allowances for the sectors covered by the UK 
CBAM could amount to almost USD 2 billion of additional 
revenues by 2034.66 Carbon tax exemptions also represent 
foregone revenue, although explicit exemptions are less 
common than free allocation, meaning the amount of 
forgone revenues from carbon taxes is relatively smaller. 
South Africa provides tax rebates through free allowances, 
which for some industries represents an effective rebate 
of over 90%, significantly reducing the amount of revenue 
collected. Using carbon credits as offsets provides greater 
flexibility to businesses and can stimulate investment in 
uncovered sectors, but it also reduces potential carbon 
revenue collected. For example, in 2024 around 17.6 million 
carbon credits were used to offset carbon tax liabilities in 
Colombia and almost 4 million in South Africa—translating to 
over USD 100 million and USD 40 million in forgone revenue, 
respectively.

--- PÁGINA 45 ---

CHAPTER 3
Carbon 
crediting 
markets and 
mechanisms
